 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ash Roberts  
 
 
 
 This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and 
incidents either are the product of the author’s imagination or are 
used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or 
dead, events, or locales is entirely coincidental.   
 
Copyright © 2020 by Ash Roberts  
 
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reprod uced or 
used in any manner without written permission of the copyright 
owner except for the use of quotations in a book review.   
  
 
 
 
To my wife, who believes in me more than I tend to believe in 
myself
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
It takes a village to  write a book. I couldn’t have done it without 
the help and support of my village.  
 
Monica, who is much smarter than me and taught me much of 
what I know about the craft, Chrishaun , Heather A and Heather 
D for letting me bounce ideas off of them, Ripley for phenomenal 
editing, Anna, who provided me with the kernel of the idea for 
this book, Riley for babysitting while I wrote, Inara for believing 
in me, and my mother for always enco uraging me, ever since 
the first time I wrote a story in the fourth grade.  

 
 
 
I woke from a nap I hadn’t intended to take to find the sun high in 
the sky. I was supposed to be meeting someone in the castle right 
now. I shouldn’t have gone out at all, but Elves are made of nature, 
and it calls to us. At least, that’s the excuse I would  give if I got in 
trouble. But I wouldn’t because I was the Princess.  
On the west side of the property, a large meadow separated my 
home from the city below. A hill gave a magnificent view of stone 
buildings and thatched roofs and farmland beyond it. It wa s as close 
to seeing the world from the sky as I wanted to get.  
I was nearly back to the castle when, a shadow sped across the 
ground, crossing mine. Large. Winged.  Dragon.  My heart raced, and 
an uncontrollable panic rose inside of me.  It’s just flying over. It won’t 
come back. But even as I thought it, the rider circled back, the huge 
Orange beast he controlled barrelling down on me. I ducked inside 
the nearest doorway, gasping for breath. Hidden in the cool darkness 
of its shaded overhang, my mind slip ped back to the day of my fifth 
birthday.  
My grandfather held estates in the south, close to the front of our 
war with the Orc’s kingdom of Glamhoth. My mother didn’t 
approve, but because it was my birthday, Grandfather let me ride 
with him as he made his rounds that day. On our way back, the horse 
suddenly snorted and balked. Grandfather spurred the animal on, but 
it almost bucked us off.  
While the mare settled back on all four hooves, I saw them. "Ooh, 
dragons," I squealed, pointing at the two winged -creatures low over 
the horizon.  
Royal Dragoneer   10 
 Grandfather tensed behind me. He yanked at the reigns. "Move, 
you drafted animal, or I’ll feed you to those beasts myself." He 
regained control of the horse and we galloped back to his house. I 
bounced in the saddle and grabbed tightly at the arm he held around 
me. 
"To arms," he shouted as we rode. "Orcs attack on dragons. To 
arms!"  
Farmhands streamed from the fields to the guardhouses where 
soldiers handed out swords, staves, and other weapons. Closer to the 
house, tradespeople assembled any tools at hand for defence, while 
children stacked buckets by the well.  
At the stables. Grandfather jumped off his mount before we even 
stopped. He pulled me down and carried me inside as easily as I did 
one of my dolls. We cut through the kit chens where the cooks were 
stripping the room of its knives and cleavers, sticking them into belts 
and holsters.  
In the sitting room, The Royal Guard surrounded my parents, 
swords pointing outward. They saw us and parted, making way. 
"Kalia!" Mother cried,  grabbing me, a terrified look in her eyes.  
"Get to the kitchens," Grandfather commanded. "You can hide in 
the root cellar. You will be safe there." He pushed through the guard 
and took down the polished broadsword that hung above the mantle.  
"Dad, no," Mo ther said. "Come with us."  
He held the weapon up, checking that the blade had remained true 
after sitting idle so long. "This is my land, and I will defend it," he 
said. "And defend you." Without another word, he was gone.  
The guards ushered us into the kitchen and pulled open the 
cellar’s hatch. Mother carried me towards it, but I squirmed out of 
her grasp. "My dolly," I cried. Guards reached for me, but I 
scrambled between their legs. My young mind understood there was 
danger. That was exactly why I had  to save it.  
I’d left it on the parapet, the low stone wall surrounding the 
second floor. It was the best vantage point of Grandfather’s 
property.  
11  
 As I stood at that wall, I saw my grandfather down below in the 
courtyard, raising his sword to an Orc mounte d on a huge green 
dragon.  
He swung at the beast, but it caught the sword in its talons. 
Another great claw flipped him into the air, his body crashing into 
the stone rampart. He did not move.  
"No," I cried. Hands grabbed at me, and I struggled, biting and 
kicking like my life depended on it.  
"Hush, child." The Captain of the Royal Guard held me tighter.  
I stopped struggling and fell limp in his arms. Tears fell freely as 
he took me back to my parents.  
"Lord Hollysword is dead," he told them somberly.  
I don’ t remember much more from that day. We spent hours in 
that cellar. Only the occasional crashing noise made it through the 
thick door. When it finally opened, the Captain looked down at us, a 
tall Dark Elf in Dragoneer garb standing at his side.  
"The fight is over," The Captain told us. "Thanks to this man and 
his dragon."  
The Dark Elf wore dark orange leather and a bloody bandage over 
his right hand. Father thanked him for his bravery and gave him 
money for a healer. But I knew he had to be bad to ride a dr agon. A 
dragon killed my Grandfather right before my eyes. I did not trust 
this man or the enormous Orange beast that paced outside our door. 
Dragons were killers. They were evil.  
And now, back in the here and now, a dragon was invading my 
home once again.  Was it an attack or some kind of pretense at help? 
Either way, I had to pull it together. I had to warn my parents, or at 
least the guards. I needed to move, but I stood there in my shadowed 
doorway, shaking for some moments before I found the courage to 
continue into the castle.  
I hurried to the wing where Father conducted business. I wasn’t 
exactly forbidden from being there. He just didn’t like "silly little girls 
running about." But I was neither silly nor running, I was on a 
mission.  
Royal Dragoneer   12 
 "If you don’t sen d more resources," a deep and scratchy voice 
said, "we won’t be able to cover the front. Fawla won’t be the only 
province to fall." Voices like that came from long years of yelling 
from dragon.  
The dragon wasn’t an attacker. Inside, my father held court wi th 
one of the Dragoneers of Darneta. They were our army who rode 
dragons into battle during times of war. I knew I shouldn’t eavesdrop 
just outside the door, but if I was to be a competent wife to the next 
king of Darneta someday, I needed to be informed. And the heavy 
oak door was slightly open anyway. It was an easy enough mistake. 
The thing weighed more than I did.  
I leaned closer. I could justify it all I wanted, but truly I was 
curious about the Dragoneer. I couldn’t understand how any man 
could spend his life around those terrible beasts. I wanted to catch a 
peak at someone that crazy.  
Father sat on his throne wearing the thick fur robes he reserved 
for formal occasions. And the man pacing before him was someone I 
instantly recognized. He was the same Draogoneer from that horrible 
day ten years ago. In place of the hand that been bandaged the last 
time I saw him, a metal hook protruded from a harness around a 
rounded stump. This must be Authand, the famous Dragoneer 
Colonel.  
He turned, glancing my direc tion, and I ducked back behind the 
door, holding my breath. Thankfully, he must not have seen me 
because he resumed his ranting about feed for his dragons.  
"You will have to make do," Father told him. When I peeked 
again, I could see him gripping the armre sts of his chair. "The 
Goblins have been destroying our crops. The people will revolt if I 
send food to dragons before Elves."  
"The people will die if the dragons aren’t up to fighting strength," 
the rider thundered back. "There is more to Darneta than you r cushy 
seat here in Kastea. You need to stop thinking of popularity and start 
thinking of survival. If you don’t, well, the other kingdoms have need 
of Dragoneers as well." I couldn’t believe Father let him talk like that. 
13  
 Each kingdom had its own corp of  Dragoneers. It had never 
occurred to me that a fleet might emigrate to another kingdom if they 
weren’t treated well. The idea felt almost treasonous. I would have 
had Authand thrown in the dungeons if he’d said such a thing to me.  
But Father stayed calm. He was angry; that was for sure. A wave 
of color flashed across his face and ears before disappearing. He took 
a breath and set his expression into a deep frown. Was Father just 
going to take the rebuke? A king shouldn’t accept criticism from 
commoners lik e this Authand. I put my hand on the door. If Father 
wouldn’t handle the matter, I would.  
"What are you doing?’ Mother demanded from behind me. "Etlin 
is waiting for you in the gardens." I would swear she was part air 
elemental the way she could sneak up o n people. She always told me 
ladies glide when they walk, not run from spot to spot like I did.  
I turned away from the gaping door casually. "I was on my way 
when I heard a noise. I think there is something wrong with Father."  
She shook her head. "More lik e you were nosing into private 
business." Her frown softened into a smile. "So, what did you learn?"  
I crossed my arms. "A Dark Elf is being belligerent towards 
Father. I don’t understand how someone like that could be in charge 
of our military."  
"They are  still Elves," she reprimanded my prejudice. "Never 
judge a person by their appearance. It is their character that counts. 
And you are one to talk about belligerence. Now go. Ladies do not 
keep their suitors waiting." She gave me a gentle push.  
"But Father -." 
"Your father can handle his own affairs without you. Just like you 
should be attending to your own affairs right now."  She held the 
same graceful poise as a moment ago, but her features looked harder 
now. It was an expression of patience wearing. I’d seen that look 
many times growing up, and it wouldn’t go well if I didn’t comply 
with her demands.  
I started jogging to the  courtyard.  
"Ladies walk," she called after me.  
Royal Dragoneer   14 
 I slowed down but still couldn’t manage the gentle footfalls of my 
mother. She was a true lady, and I was something else entirely. But 
she still loved me fiercely, and I her.  
Etlin slouched on the wide stones  surrounding the fountain, one 
hand drawing slow circles in the still water. I was half an hour late for 
our meeting, at least. He straightened and stood at my noisy entrance. 
A few short steps closed the gap between us. I was still upset at 
Authand and my  mother, but I melted a little at the sight of him in 
his starched breaches and silk shirt. I smiled as he kissed my nose.  
I tried to give a girlish giggle, but, as usual, my body refused to 
behave with the grace and poise I had supposedly been born to. 
Instead, it came out as a snort.  
Etlin laughed.  
My ears turned red, but I laughed with him.  
His arms slid down my arms, taking my hands in his.  
I could have stayed there, looking into his eyes forever. Or better 
yet, we could have snuck off into the shadows and really kissed. But, 
of course, that wouldn’t have been appropriate behavior for a 
princess.  
"Guess who I saw?" I asked him, trying to return my attention to 
the problem of dragons at the castle.  
"Hopefully somebody important, considering how late you w ere." 
He grinned.  
I stuck out my tongue at him. It wasn’t very regal, but I didn’t 
care. "A Dragoneer Colonel. He was meeting with Father."  
"He probably arrived early for the hatching," Etlin speculated. 
"The other races should be here soon. Makes sense th at he would 
want to arrive beforehand to greet them."  
"The cooks have been preparing food for days. Some of it smells 
really bad." I made a face as I recalled the thick smell of blood from 
the cow they’d drained for the Nightbloods. The Wolf -shifters would  
eat the meat, so nothing would go to waste. The Humans and 
Elementals ate ordinary enough food, but what Orcs ate was 
completely disgusting. It was bad enough that Orcs were allowed in 
15  
 the castle at all. But there was an official truce now, because the 
Goblins were the enemy of us all. If we didn’t stand together, they 
would outnumber and obliterate us. Still, the Orcs’ food should have 
been illegal. Bile rose in my throat, just thinking about it.  
This brought a fresh bout of laughter from him. "I’m sure t hey 
cringe at our diet as well. But I wouldn’t mind if they didn’t come. 
Then we could keep all of the eggs for ourselves."  
My stomach revolted at the idea. "They can keep the eggs," I said. 
"Don’t we have enough dragons?"  
"Come now, you can’t mean that. T hey’re our primary means of 
fighting the Goblins. You can’t be afraid of dragons forever."  
"They killed my grandfather. I watched it happen. I’m not afraid. I 
just won’t forgive." Of course, it was a lie. I’d been terrified by the 
mere shadow of a dragon e arlier. It had made me feel like that 
helpless five -year-old all over again.  
Etlin stood up straight. "A dragon is a weapon, just like a sword. 
One cannot blame the weapon for the wielder’s actions. Beside, that 
war is over. They’re our allies now."  
I hate d it when Etlin got all manly and lordly on me. As if I 
needed a lecture on dragons and swords and wars. He was so nice to 
look at and kiss, though. But I was completely not in the mood 
anymore.  
"Maybe you should leave," I said letting of or his hand.  
"But—I—We," he stammered, surprised I would turn him away 
after he’d given me such a fine argument against my silly girlish ways.  
"Go, really," I said, dismissing him. "We’ll talk later."
 

 
 
 
The hatchery lay just a mile east of the capital. Previous times the 
dragons had chosen Darneta for laying their broods, the other noble 
children liked to come down here to gawk at the infant dragons and 
the young Dragoneers chosen to care for them. I alwa ys had an 
excuse. I was ill, I’d injured myself, I was needed at the castle.  
But while my parents had humored me when I was younger, I was 
fifteen now. By this time next year, I’d be making preparations for 
my marriage to Etlin.  
So, I couldn’t avoid the du ties of state any longer. Instead, I was 
stuck in an underground cavern staring at a dragon egg. And if that 
wasn’t bad enough, there were dozens more where that had come 
from. They were tucked behind a large wooden door waiting for their 
turn on the raise d dais in the center of the cave, with several rows of 
stone benches forming a U around it. At least the royal box was 
toward the back, even if its elevation made me feel more exposed.  
Steam rose from nearby pools, making the air humid. No natural 
light pe netrated the underground space, so lanterns were suspended 
from the ceiling, casting a flickering yellow glow on everything.  
"When is it going to do something?" I asked, fidgeting in my seat. 
"We’ve been here an hour already." Pretending to be bored wasn’t  as 
easy as I’d hoped, when all I really wanted to do was flee.  
"You are witnessing the miracle of life, young lady." Mother 
patted my hand firmly enough to express her disproval. "A new soul 
being born into the world. It cannot be rushed."  
How could she f orget that one of those ‘miracles of life’ had 
ended her father’s? How could she be so forgiving?  
Royal Dragoneer   18 
 "But I don’t want to be here," I moaned. "I want to go home and 
witness the miracle of a soft bed."  
Mother glared at me, and I knew I had crossed a line. She gave me 
her disappointed nod, the kind that meant her reprimand would 
come later, in private, where I couldn’t make a scene. Father, 
however, had no such qualms. He turned in his chair and leaned in 
close to my face. I pulled back, but he grabbed my wrists —right 
there in front of the guards and servants, and even the commoners 
closest to our box.  
"You are the princess of Darneta, the greatest of the Seven 
Kingdoms," he said. "You have a duty to your people to be present 
for important events. You don’t have to like it. Now, sit and watch 
these eggs until something happens. And when they hatch, you will 
cheer and look happy."  
He turned back around in his seat, facing the dais with its egg. 
Mother passed me a cloth, and I dabbed my eyes, careful not to 
smear th e little bit of makeup I’d been allowed to wear. I glanced 
around. The guards stood stoic as ever, but the servants were doing 
their best not to look in my direction. A few rows ahead of us, I 
caught Etlin’s eyes. He looked away quickly, pretending to be 
intensely interested in the egg as it sat on the heated rocks.  
I took a breath, looking at it myself. I could do this. After all, it 
was just an egg. An egg couldn’t kill. That came later. When it 
hatched. But for now, it was just an egg, like the chicken e ggs I ate 
for breakfast, only larger.  
I studied it. It stood three feet high and could have been a rock if 
not for the perfect ovoid shape of it. Once, dragons had hatched in 
the wild, and the mother’s had arranged their eggs to look like natural 
formation s to protect from predators. I couldn’t image what 
predators a dragon could have.  
The egg wobbled.  
I sucked in my breath. It wouldn’t be just an egg much longer.  
It wobbled again, and a crack formed near the top.  
19  Ash Rober ts 
 I tried not to panic, gripping my seat with  both hands to keep 
myself from jumping up and running out.  
Silence fell over the crowd as we watched the egg fracture.  
The potential Dragoneers scrambled for position, the older teens 
pushing to get in front while some of the younger contestants sought 
shelter behind their larger competitors. Save for the Dwarves, who 
abhorred the very thought of flight, every kingdom race was 
represented on the hatching floor. A Wolf -shifter and a Nightblood 
shoved each other, nearly breaking into a fight.  
Then, a tapping  sound froze everyone, and a blue beak thrust 
through a crack in the shell. Tiny silver talons poked out next, 
pushing the opening wider. Finally, the egg split open in fractured 
pieces, and an infant dragon spilled from it.  
It pushed up on its wing claws and craned its head, looking around 
and screeching like one of Father’s racing hawks, except louder. It 
stood about five feet tall, and light filtered through the translucent 
wings to cast a blue pall over the nearby contestants. As it swung its 
head this way and that, crying for its mother, I got a good look at its 
odd-shaped skull.  
"What’s wrong with it?" I blurted.  
The entire audience turned at my outburst and stared. I felt my 
ears growing red. But there was something obviously wrong with the 
dragon. Us ually, the monsters had large, pointy, Elf -like ears. They 
didn’t have stubby little flaps.  
The dignitaries and hopefuls weren’t the only one whose attention 
I had caught.  
The baby dragon turned its head and looked at me, its eyes 
seeming to pierce my soul  and examine the very heart of me.  
"She". I heard a voice whisper behind me.  
I whirled around but there was no one there. Slowly, I turned back 
to the dragon.  
"She", the voice said again. " I’m a girl, like you. Don’t  worry;  my features  
will grow in time to look more like yours". 
Royal Dragoneer   20 
 I jumped up, sending my chair flying. I scrambled backwards, 
away from the dragon.  
It hissed and stumbled towards the stands, barreling through the 
contestants on the hatching floor.  
The spectators backed away, crowding the sides of  the viewing 
area. 
It – "I keep telling  you, I’m a she" – screeched again and started 
climbing up the rock wall that separated the arena from the royal 
viewing box.  
I cowered in the corner as the dragon approached. The little blue 
creature wasn’t as tall a s a grown man, but all I could see, in my 
mind’s eye, was the huge green dragon that had killed my 
Grandfather.  
"Get that beast under control," my father shouted.  
Guards closed in around my parents with spears pointed at the 
evil thing.  
"No, protect my dau ghter." He shooed them away. "It’s after the 
Princess. Save her." He pulled his own sword out. It was only a 
ceremonial piece with a gem -encrusted hilt and polished blade, but I 
appreciated the gesture.  
A guard stepped towards the dragon; it eyed him with tilted head 
as if trying to decide if he were friend or foe. Three more guards 
converged around me.  
The dragon saw this and leapt into the air. I thought it was going 
to fly away, but instead the creature tumbled back to the ground right 
on top of me.  
My b reath left me as its head pushed into my chest. I couldn’t 
move. This was it. Hopefully Grandfather would meet me on the 
other side to lead me to the Fields of Arman. Maybe there was a 
special section for those who had been killed by dragons.  
But instead o f chomping down on my head or impaling me with 
its sharp claws, the dragon turned towards the guards, rose to its hind 
legs and flapped its wings.  
I sucked in a breath as its weight lifted off my chest.  
21  Ash Rober ts 
 A guard thrust his sword, and the dragon backed from it, pinning 
me once again.  
"Get off of me," I gasped, bringing my arms up to my head. To 
the guards, I pleaded. "Help me."  
The dragon hissed and snapped at the men as they pressed closer. 
From under the beast, I could see their expressions as my father’s 
soldiers debated whether they could kill it.  
"Stop!" shouted a voice, echoing through the chamber. "Get away 
from that dragon," Colonel Authand commanded. He hadn’t been 
present at the beginning of the hatching, but he was here now. His 
Orange dragon, too l arge to fit into the hatching cavern, peeked its 
head through a door and trumpeted in displeasure.  
Why was he protecting a dragon that was attacking me? A growl 
of frustration rose up in my throat. " Wait,  had I just growled? " 
"I’m not attacking  you. "The whispery voice in my head said. " I’m 
keeping  you safe from these assassins ". 
The Colonel closed the distance to the seating area and leapt over 
the wall. He reached the guards surrounding us and yanked the first 
one away by his sword arm. The guard twisted  and swung at 
Authand, but despite his disability the Colonel dodged the blow with 
ease. 
"Back off," he said, and the other guards obeyed. "She is only 
protecting her rider."  
"Exactly.  You are my rider and it is my duty to save you from these 
scoundrels. " 
That was when I realized the voice I’d been hearing was the 
dragon hatchling. But its mouth didn’t move when it spoke to me. It 
was speaking directly into my mind.  

 
 
 
"But I can’t be a rider," I protested. "I’m th e Princess."  
Authand moved towards me and the guards gave him even more 
space. I could feel the dragon relax as it slid off of me gently. Relief 
washed over me. But the feeling was odd, alien, like it wasn’t my own 
emotion but something coming from outside  of me. I looked at the 
dragon and cocked my head in a silent question. It actually nodded, 
and I added that to the long list of really weird things that were 
happening today.  
Father and Mother came forward, cautiously, keeping well out of 
the reach of the  dragon. Mother looked worried. Father looked angry 
and perplexed.  
"Dragons don’t care about rank or society," Authand explained. 
"They choose their riders based on the qualities of a good companion 
and rider. Sometimes, they even see traits in us that we,  ourselves, 
cannot."  
"That’s  right, "the voice in my head said."  And you are the bravest  and 
most loyal in all of Darneta ". 
A large Orange dragon snout poked through the doorway and 
snorted.  
The Colonel shook his head. "Or sometimes, the dragon is just 
young and foolish and exercises poor judgement."  
I bristled at the comment, but I had to agree. This stupid animal 
had made a terrible mistake. I could not possibly be a good 
companion or rider to something I despised.  
Authand rubbed the dragon on her shoulde r, and conflicting 
emotions filled me. She seemed to be enjoying it, and that made me 
happy for some reason. But part of me wanted to push him away and 
Royal Dragoneer   24 
 do it myself. Which was crazy. How could I want to touch a dragon, 
let alone rub its shoulder?  
The drago n’s spiked tail stopped switching back and forth. The 
Colonel patted her twice and took a step towards me. He took my 
hand in his. It was dry and rough, scratching my delicate skin. He 
spoke barely above a whisper, words meant for me and no other. 
"Princes s Kalia, I know this may not be want you wanted, but this is 
a baby who needs you now. You have a duty to it, and your nation, to 
help her grow into an adult."  
I pulled away from him. He had no business telling me what I had 
to do. "But I can’t." My eyes p leaded with his.  
He shook his head. "You will learn." He gave a small smile and 
guided my hand to the dragon’s back. Loud enough for the crowd to 
hear, he said, "Now, the first step is to get your dragon out of the 
seating area and into the back. Korth wil l meet you there to get you 
started, and we can give the other eggs a chance to hatch."  
He pushed again, and I took a step forward. I had been so caught 
up in the events of the past few minutes that I had forgotten that 
everybody, literally every important  person in Darneta, and more 
than a few from the other kingdoms, had watched this drama unfold. 
I’d made enough of a scene for one day and decided that the back 
portion of this cavern would be more comfortable than the looks I 
was getting.  
As I passed my p arents, I glanced at them. Father scowled.  
I wanted to tell him this was his fault. If he hadn’t insisted I attend 
the hatching, none of this would have happened.  
Mother bit her lip. I caught her eyes, glistening with tears. The 
action of looking at me see med to burst the dam of her composure 
and she started crying.  
Father took her in his arms to console her. He looked up as 
Authand led us out of the royal box. Mother’s tears hadn’t softened 
him; if anything, he was angrier now.  
Fine, let him be angry. I wa sn’t exactly happy about it either.  
"Do you want me to eat him?" 
25  Ash Rober ts 
 "Shush, you. There will be no eating of anybody," I said aloud. 
The crowd pressed away from us even more.  
I stopped at the wall. I couldn’t climb over it in my dress without 
being immodest. The Colonel nodded me forward, but I stood 
motionless. He cocked his head towards the dragon door and seemed 
to realize my plight. He stepped behind me and scooped me up.  
I let out a shriek at being airborne but was back down on the 
other side a moment lat er. The crowd seemed to find it funny. Great, 
even more to be embarrassed about.  
"If they tease you, I will eat them". 
"I said no eating people." The tittering and murmuring ceased.  
Authand gestured me forward and we started towards the rear 
chamber again.  He leaned in close and whispered, "You know, you 
can communicate silently with her. It would be better to do so than 
to keep publicly reporting her infant whims about eating people."  
"How do I do that?"  
"Think of her and just say the words in your mind," he said.  
I took in the sight of this creature who had adopted me as her 
mother and thought at it, Can you hear me? 
"Yes, Kalia.  I can hear you. And please  don’t call me ‘it’. That hurts my 
feelings ". 
"Sorry". I looked down.  
"Practice this, both of you," Au thand said. "In time, you will learn 
to pay attention to only the thoughts directed at you, instead of 
hearing all of them."  
I cringed at the word " all." In spite of everything that had been 
going on, my thoughts had gone to Etlin when the Colonel had 
swoo ped me up in his arms. I had wished it had been Etlin’s arms 
instead.  
"Have you had a mating  flight with him yet?" 
Authand snorted. Wait. Could he hear her too? Could he hear me? 
Did being stuck with a dragon mean I had to give up any semblance 
of privacy?  "What is your name?" I asked her, forgetting to say it with 
my mind.  
Royal Dragoneer   26 
 "I am Farean.  We are going to be great friends. " 
I doubted that, but kept my mouth shut as we reached the rear 
doors. They were bigger than normal ones, but not quite as large as 
the one s leading to the throne room. Authand pulled them open 
effortlessly, and Farean and I were able to pass through side by side.  
We entered a cavern that dwarfed the hatching chamber. Fires 
dotted the floor clustered around caches of eggs. Acrid smoke 
cloaked  the ceiling and stained the walls. I pulled out Mother’s cloth 
to dab the beads of sweat forming at my brow.  
The enormous Orange dragon from the door earlier met us. I tried 
to back away, but with Authand behind me, I had nowhere to go. 
"This is Korth," I  was introduced, as if he were a lord or something. 
"He will help you get settled." Authand stepped past us and rubbed 
the behemoth’s muzzle. The man’s gaze seemed almost that of a 
lover’s. A small smile flickered across his lips before his features 
return ed to the gruff expression he usually wore. He shouted over to 
where some Elves and smaller dragons were huddled, "Bring out the 
next egg. C’mon. Let’s get this show moving before they all hatch in 
here."  
The group burst into a frenzy of activity as two gr een dragons 
lifted the egg from a nest and lowered it onto a cart. The Elves 
pushed it to the door and out to the hatching grounds. I watched as 
they arrayed themselves in a circle and hoisted the egg. The five 
holding it up seemed to struggle as the sixth  pulled the cart out. They 
lowered it onto the hot rocks and the taller one leaned in and 
whispered to the egg. That done, they hurried back inside.  
"Those are second year trainees. Next year, you might help with 
the hatching if eggs are laid in Darneta ag ain," Authand said.  
"Over my dead body." I glanced at the dragon hatchling beside me 
and gulped. To get the image of it eating me out of my mind, I 
focused on a tall boy as he broke away from the group. Authand 
waved him towards us. "This is Lewon, the hea d of his class."  
"What did he say to the egg?" I asked as he approached.  
27  Ash Rober ts 
 "He gave it permission to hatch. It’s not a science, as Farean just 
proved, but they generally wait until we tell them it’s show time."  
Lewon closed the gap between us and held out his hand in the 
typical manner of the outer provinces. I raised the back of my hand 
to his, hinting at the proper etiquette for being introduced to a lady. 
He looked at it like he wasn’t sure what he was supposed to do. My 
ears turned red and I lowered my hand.  
"I bet you wouldn’t  mind a mating  flight with him". My ear tips grew 
warmer, and Lewon broke out laughing. Great, I had a faulty dragon 
that anybody could listen in on.  
"Just the other dragons.  I can’t help what they share with their riders. " 
"Well, just shut up and stop embarrassing  me". I stomped off like a 
child, but it followed me as I headed away from the others.  
"She." Her ‘voice’ was filled with annoyance. " How would  you like it 
if I called you an it?" She turned her head towards Korth and nodd ed 
before returning her attention back on me. " He says we must go down to 
the pool, so you can wash me". 
"What?" I said, forgetting to think my words to her. "Do I look 
like a servant to you? I’m not " touching " you with a ten -foot pole." 
The Elves and drag ons paused their work of loading an egg as my 
voice echoed through the underground cavern.  
There were entirely too many dragons near me. Arenaline coursing 
through my body made me jittery, every nerve screaming for me to 
run. I glanced around. If an adult dragon couldn’t come through the 
door to the hatching floor, there must be another exit.  
Korth directed the events of the backroom as a young red dragon 
entered with the Nightblood candidate I’d seen earlier, and the 
second years brought out another egg.  
Behind the Orange beast, a tunnel large enough for even his bulk 
retreated into darkness. Flickering dots of light from torches on the 
walls receded into the distance.  
I headed in that direction.  
Farean followed me. " Where  are you going?  The pool is the other way". 
To add to her mental plea, she trumpeted and floundered around the 
Royal Dragoneer   28 
 dirt floor, kicking up a cloud of dust and getting everyone’s attention 
again.  
I picked up my pace, now as close to a run as my dress would 
allow.  
Farean bounced awkwardly as she t ried to gallop to keep up.  
Authand intercepted me before I could reach the tunnel, grabbing 
my arm and nearly yanking it out of its socket. "You’re supposed to 
stay with your dragon here at the hatchery until she is old enough to 
fly, and then you leave fo r the training grounds."  
I’d had enough of people grabbing me and pushing me around for 
one day. I pulled loose from his grip; more out of surprise on his part 
than strength on mine. "I am not sleeping on a dirt floor in what 
amounts to a stable. There’s b een a huge mistake. I’m not fit to take 
care of Farean. I’m going home where there are no dragons."  
I pushed past him and on to the tunnel.  
Lewon started after me, but Authand stopped him. "Wait," he 
said. "She won’t get far."  
"I’ll show him", I thought as  I plunged into the darkness.  
 
 
 
The tunnel wasn’t too bad. The torches provided enough light to 
see by as it sloped up towards the surface. Compared to the heat of 
the hatching cavern, though, it was downright damp and chilly.  
Heavy footsteps followed me into the darkness. I kept up my 
pace, hoping to put some distance between me and my pursuer.  
"Wait for me," Farean whined.  
I used it as encouragement to keep going.  
At last, daylight shone at the mouth of the tunnel. I stepped into 
the open air. Dark clouds covered the sun, and cold wind gusted 
around me. I considered finding my parent’s carriage and taking it 
back, but I was in enough trouble and didn’t want to add to it. 
Instead, I hurried down the path.  
Farean followed me through the woods and into the capital. Elves 
dove out of our way and ducked behind carts and barrels as we 
walked through the streets. I wished I could do the same, but there 
was no losing her. For her part, she ignored them. Her head swive led 
as she walked, like a newborn baby on its first trip outside, which 
technically she was. Her tail swung back and forth, occasionally 
knocking over barrels of salted fish or grain. I felt a raindrop and 
quickened my pace.  
I was huffing by the time I rea ched the castle. The guard at the 
door eyed me, no doubt wondering what I was doing home without 
my parents and in such a state.  
I made it back to my room and had to light a candle. The sky had 
grown so dark that I might have mistaken it for twilight. I ha d the 
presence of mind to close my shutters before collapsing on my bed, 
Royal Dragoneer   30 
 the oak frame creaking as it distributed my weight across the four 
posters supporting a silk canopy.  
I heard shouts from the floor below, but I couldn’t concentrate on 
them. I felt ic ky and needed a bath, but all I could think about was 
sleep. I kicked off my destroyed sandals but otherwise crawled under 
the wool blankets fully dressed.  
I woke to Farean’s whining echoing in my head. " Kalia,  I can’t reach 
you. Kalia,  why did you leave me? Kalia,  come here, pleeeeeeeease. " 
I squeezed my eyes together harder, as if that would keep her 
voice out of my brain. I brought a pillow over my head, but the 
psychic connection would not be silenced. And outside, I could still 
hear the rainstorm that had descended over the city, raging and 
matching my mood.  
A knock on my door brought me out from under my pillow. 
"Enter," I called, not caring how I looked.  
A maid, the same one from yesterday, shuffled in, her head down. 
"Princess, there is a dragon in t he main hall. It says that it’s with 
you?"  
"Do I look like I have a dragon?" I snapped. "Tell it to leave. It is 
not welcome here. And draw me a bath."  
She didn’t move. "The dragon won’t leave. The porter said it came 
in with you, making it your responsibi lity. Please, my lady. Your 
parents aren’t here, and it is scaring everybody."  
"It’s scaring me as well." I sighed. "Fine. I will send it away. But 
prepare that bath, I wasn’t kidding about that."  
"Kalia,  Kalia.  Where  are you? I neeeeeed  you". 
I took the s teps two at a time. "Oh, shut up. I’m coming." I passed 
a different maid, and she stopped at my outburst. "Not you. Go do 
something." She shook her head and continued up the stairs. Great, 
now I had the servants thinking I was crazy. I wished I was crazy; it 
would be preferable to owning a dragon that would eat me at the first 
opportunity, like the bears that the Orcs trained but were always 
attacking their masters.  
31  Ash Rober ts 
 I found Farean in the great hall with a few servants, their backs 
pressed against the far wa ll. As I stepped into the room, happiness 
washed over me.  
"Kalia.  You came back". "Oh, Kalia.  I knew you’d come back". 
I hesitantly reached out to her. My hand shook as it inched closer 
to her muzzle. " Please  don’t bite me. Please  don’t bite me." 
"I would  never do that". She pushed her nose towards my hand. It 
made contact, and I jumped back. I nervously glanced around the 
room, but the servants had vanished. I reached out again. I touched 
her snout lightly and, sensing no attack, allowed the full weight to  
rest on her. Farean rewarded me with another push of contentment.  
My stomach rumbled. Except it wasn’t mine. I looked at her.  
"What’s  wrong  with me? "She thought at me" . My middle  feels weird. " 
The stomach rumbling sensation came again. The good feeling 
from our contact evaporated. "You’re hungry, Stupid. Don’t you 
know what that is?"  
Farean shook her head. I kept forgetting she was only a couple of 
hours old.  
I grabbed a passing servant. "We need some food. What do you 
eat, Farean?"  
It better not be princ ess. 
"Meat.  "She blasted the word into my brain. I didn’t know that you 
could squeal telepathically, but I couldn’t describe it any other way.  
"Get her some meat," I told the servant. "Surely we have roast 
leftover from yesterday."  
He scurried off to the kitchens. I wasn’t sure how the cooks would 
react to the request, but they needed to hurry. My stomach was 
twisting in knots, like I’d never eaten before. Then again, I guess that 
was literally true for Farean.  
The servant came back carrying a banquet plat ter piled high with 
cuts of mutton and beef. He stopped at the doorway. The platter 
wavered as his whole body quaked, threatening to overturn the meal.  
"Come on." I waved him closer.  
Royal Dragoneer   32 
 His eyes flicked between the food he was carrying and the dragon 
whipping  her spiked tail against the wall. I gestured at him again, but 
he came no closer.  
I marched over to him and grabbed the tray, taking a moment to 
glare in displeasure. "Father will hear about this." My voice came out 
low and guttural as if I were using the  dragon’s voice box instead of 
my own.  
The servant hurried off, no doubt to change his underclothes, and 
I returned my attention to my giant, terrifying pet.  
I lowered the platter in front of her. "How do we do this? Do I 
feed you? Can you use a fork?" I r eally hoped I didn’t have to place 
chunks of meat in her mouth. Some of our dinner guests, even the 
nobles, used their hands to eat, but I hated handling the mutton. The 
greasy feel of it made me queasy.  
"Just leave it where I can reach it." 
I backed away and she came up to the plate. Opening her jaw, a 
serpentine tongue uncoiled and wrapped around the roast. Then it all 
disappeared back into her maw and swallowed the food whole. She 
went back for another chunk and repeated the process. Forget 
handling the meat; I might get sick just watching her eat.  
After finishing the mutton, she licked at the juices on the silver 
platter, holding it down with one talon as it clanked against the stone 
floor. Satisfied, Farean settled into lethargy.  
I got up and decided to  check on my bath. I’d barely taken two 
steps when Farean reached out with a front claw and grabbed me. 
Shrieking, I fought against her grip as she brought me back in close 
to her body."  Kalia,  sleep with meeeeee. " 
Still fighting her grasp, I replied, "No,  I have my own bed to sleep 
in." I didn’t want to mention the bath, guilt creeping in as I recalled 
the instruction to clean her that had sent me running away from the 
hatchery.  
She didn’t respond. I craned my head to see her double lids closed 
and her bod y heaving in long breaths. Her claw loosened, but not 
enough for me to escape.  
33  Ash Rober ts 
 I pushed a final time against the talon holding me down before 
giving up. I tried to make myself comfortable. I had no idea how 
long dragons slept, but it looked like I was goin g to be there for a 
while.  
I must have dozed off. One moment Farean’s snores filled the 
silence of the room. The next, the room echoed with noise —most of 
it coming from my father.  
"What is this beast doing in the castle? Get it out of here. Kalia, 
what is the meaning of this? Why are you sleeping on the floor?" He 
wasn’t alone. He had his usual entourage of servants and guards, but 
mother was nowhere to be seen.  
A member of Father’s personal guard, apparently too dumb to 
have learned from last time, stepped  forward and poked the dragon 
with the butt end of his spear.  
Farean lifted her head and yawned, showing rows of teeth, causing 
the soldier to take a step back. She finally released me, and I dropped 
to the floor with a gentle thump. I arched my back and t wisted, trying 
to wake up my sore muscled and numb limbs.  
Father watched me complete my stretches in silence. I faced him, 
unsure of what to say. He eyed my wrinkled and muddy gown and 
shook his head. "It’s a good thing your mother wasn’t feeling well 
and went upstairs. She would have a fit if she saw you like this."  
I smoothed out the bodice as best I could and returned his stare.  
"Why is there a dragon in the castle?" he asked again.  
"Because she followed me home," I said, crossing my arms.  
The smack caught me unprepared. I hadn’t realized he could still 
move that fast. The sound echoed in the empty room as my cheek 
burned.  
Farean roared, her hot breath blowing against me as she lunged 
forward, but father didn’t move or retreat. Even if she was a drago n, 
she was only an infant, and he was a grown man and King of the 
realm.  
Royal Dragoneer   34 
 "I need some time alone with my daughter." He said to those who 
accompanied him, and they filtered out of the room, leaving only the 
three of us. "Do you want to try that again withou t the smart talk?"  
I rubbed my jaw and kept quiet.  
"I don’t know what you are playing at, but you need to get rid of 
that thing. Nobility can’t be Dragoneers. It’s ridiculous. So, you have 
a choice to make." He crossed his arms. "You can have a dragon, or 
you can be my daughter. You choose."  
"Choose?" I asked, incredulous. "This wasn’t my decision. I don’t 
want to be a Dragoneer. I didn’t want to go to the hatching in the 
first place. But you made me go and then sat there and lectured me 
on duty. Well, gues s what. Now I’m stuck with this duty whether you 
want me to have it or not. The dragon stays."  
"It can’t stay here," he bellowed, waving his arms about as if 
swatting at invisible flies. "I have a kingdom to rule. This is not a 
barn or a hatchery, where an imals can roam around at will." Veins on 
his neck bulged and he huffed to catch his breath after expelling so 
much hot air. Farean trumpeted again, adding to the cacophony that 
assaulted my ears.  
"She won’t leave without me," I yelled back, standing on my toes 
and trying to get in his face. It wasn’t effective. I only came up to his 
chest. " Damn  Mother  and her short genes." 
"Then you will have to leave, too." He deflated a little as he said it, 
but the anger still flickered in his eyes.  
I froze in place. " Was he kicking  me out of my home? " Because it was 
raining outside. The thunder and lightning had died down a little, but 
I could still hear the heavy drops pounding out a rhythm on our tiled 
roof. Surely, he wouldn’t send me out in it. If mother had been th ere, 
she would have stood up for me. She wouldn’t let him treat me that 
way. 
"You can’t kick me out," I said, almost a plea. "It’s raining outside. 
Mother will never forgive you."  
"Your mother lost her father to a dragon," he said, looking past 
me to Farea n. "She and I already discussed this on the way home in 
35  Ash Rober ts 
 the carriage. She cannot live with such a beast. But you have a place 
at the hatchery. Authand is expecting your return." He didn’t say 
anything else. He just turned away and left me standing there.  
I blinked to keep the tears from falling, but they came regardless. 
A fat one rolled down my cheek and onto the silk of my sleeve. It 
didn’t matter. My clothes were about to get a whole lot wetter.  

 
 
 
Authand was ex pecting me. What had he said? " She won’t get 
far. "Well, I was about to show him. And my parents. They had 
shamed me into duty, and now they were throwing me out? I would 
show them too.  
I headed for the door and stumbled out into the rainy night, 
Farean ca vorting after me.  
We became thoroughly soaked before I discovered an overhang 
large enough to keep me from getting any wetter. I shivered against 
the buffeting winds while Farean hopped from puddle to puddle in 
the street, flapping her gossamer wings in a feeble attempt to fly. 
Despite myself, I smiled. At least one of us was having fun.  
A covered pedicab approached, forcing Farean to climb onto a 
nearby portico. The drenched Elf carrier gently lowered the handles 
to the ground and opened an umbrella before  opening the door.  
Etlin stepped out and huddled under the oiled cloth as the rain 
poured off onto the servant. Foolishly, I tried to hide; cowering into 
the shadows, but Etlin saw me and dashed over, the servant hurrying 
to keep the cloth in place. Under the protection of the overhang, 
Etlin waved the poor man off, and he promptly ducked into the 
servants’ entrance.  
"What are you doing out here?" Etlin pulled off his jacket and 
wrapped it around me. It was a formal affair with little lining for 
warmth, the  one he’d worn to the hatching, which felt like a lifetime 
ago. I continued to shiver but appreciated the gesture, none the less. 
"You’re a princess, for Farr’s sake. Not some peasant drowning in 
the streets." I was getting tired of people reminding me tha t I was a 
princess. As if that had anything to do with what I’d been stuck with. 
Royal Dragoneer   38 
 Being a princess hadn’t stopped my father tossing me out like 
rubbish. His precious decorum would allow me to catch my death 
mere feet from the hearth where he was undoubtedly  bundled near.  
"My father kicked me out," I told Etlin, expecting sympathy, or 
better yet, outrage.  
He shook his head, looking down as if ashamed to look me in the 
eye. "Go inside, Kalia. The door is right there," he pointed across the 
courtyard. "Go insid e and forget about all this dragon nonsense."  
I stared at the castle’s entrance. A mere twenty feet separated me 
from what my life had been a few short hours ago. I could do it. I 
could walk through that door and forget today had ever happened. I 
could go back to pleasing my parents and Etlin by being the perfect 
girl they expected me to be.  
"You would  leave me alone? " A voice asked, Farean’s snout peeking 
over Etlin’s head, her dragon eyes wide and terrified. It wasn’t the 
question that broke my heart. Or the look. It was the feeling. I could 
feel just what she felt, and it was so much more pain and fear than 
what I’d experienced when my father had shown me the door. I was 
nearly a grown woman, trained to command others and make my 
own choices. Farean was a  child who knew nothing of the world. I 
couldn’t abandon her, even as much as she terrified me.  
"No," I shook my head at Etlin. "I can’t leave Farean."  
"Yes, you can, Kal." He used my pet name, trying to manipulate 
me, to soften me, but it only hardened my  resolve. "You have to. For 
us." 
"What do you mean, ‘for us’? How does any of this affect us? You 
love me, and I love you. Our marriage has been arranged for years."  
"I do love you, Kal. You know that," he glanced away from me, 
frowning. "But this changes everything, don’t you see? Dragoneeers 
live a rough life. They’re constantly at risk and on the move, called to 
wherever the next battle is. That’s what having a dragon means. 
That’s not the kind of life I want."  
"So, you didn’t love me, then?" I said, lif ting my chin and staring 
him down. "You loved the life you would have as the king."  
39  Ash Rober ts 
 "Kal, that’s not fair."  
"Not " fair"?" I yelled at him. "Don’t tell me about ‘not fair.’ I did 
exactly what everyone told me to, playing the dutiful daughter, and 
fiancé, an d princess, and this is what it got me. My parents throw me 
out and you —what? Break up with me?"  
"No," he shook his head, rain dripping from his dark bangs. "My 
parents want me to break it off with you, but I came here to help you 
see that you don’t have t o do this. You can go back to what you 
were. We can go back."  
"But your parents love me —" I stammered, shocked and hurt to 
my core. " Oh no, that’s right. They loved Princess  Kalia,  not Dragoneer  
Kalia. " "Had my entire life been a lie? Did no one really care about me—not for 
what I did, or my title, but for who I was inside? " 
"I like your insides.  "Farean said. She was still looming behind Etlin, 
her wings folded over her head against the rain.  
I gulped. " Not helping. " 
"They do love you," Etlin said, but it wasn’t very convincing. "As 
do I. But if you choose this life, you’re not choosing us." He glanced 
away.  
Up to that moment, I had honestly believed in the power of love 
to overcome anything. " Gods,  I was such a fool." 
"Well, okay then," I said, and Etlin’s  eyes snapped back to mine, 
full of hope. "I guess that’s it." I pushed past him, crossing to stand 
next to Farean. "I suppose I’ll see you around."  
Colonel Authand, Father, Etlin —I’d been told what to do for the 
last time. This was my life. I would play b y my rules, not theirs.  
Etlin stood in stunned silence as the rain plastered his hair to his 
forehead and his clothes to his skin. He stared at me and my dragon, 
processing this surprise —my sudden change from someone who 
patiently and quietly did what what ever was proper and expected, to 
someone who could and would defy everyone around them.  
I almost see the pieces fall into place in his mind, preparing the 
speech he would give his parents, announcing that he’d taken out the 
Royal Dragoneer   40 
 trash like a good soon. The stor y would grow as he told our friends 
of the monster I’d become.  
Etlin opened his mouth and closed it again. I watched him stand 
in the downpour. I wanted to apologize, but part of me insisted I 
hold my ground. I’d say I was sorry, but only if he did first.  
"I can’t believe you’d choose this animal over your own kind," he 
said, gesturing at Farean.  
I pulled off his useless jacket and threw it at him. "If you are an 
example of ‘my kind, I want no part of it."  
"Fine!" he said. Clenching his jaw in fury, he cros sed to the 
servant’s entrance and yanked the door open. "We are leaving," he 
called to his servant. "Now!"  
I got a glimpse of the shocked servants sharing mead over a 
blazing fire. Were they already gossiping about me and my sudden 
descent into madness? I had no doubt I would be the talk of the city 
come morning. The Princess and the dragon. It sounded like a 
morality tale mothers would warn their daughters with.  
Etlin’s servant gulped the last swig from his mug and rushed out,  
trying to get the umbrella over Etlin, but there was no point now. He 
was soaked.  
"Stop it," Etlin commanded. "Just get me home."  
The servant nodded and opened the door to the carriage. Etlin 
placed a foot on the threshold and stopped, turning back to me.  
"Goodbye, Kalia. I don’t imagine we will meet again." He took his 
seat with an audible squish, and the door snapped close behind him. 
The servant took one last wary look at Farean beside me before 
grabbing the poles of the cab and heading for the gates.  
Farean leapt forward, chasing after the cab like a chicken after a 
lizard. I wasn’t sure if it was pure instinct, or if she was trying to 
terrorize the poor man, but the driver ran faster than any I’d ever 
seen pulling a heavy cart. Thankfully, when he turn ed the corner out 
of sight, my dragon lost interest like any toddler would, and came 
wandering back.  
41  Ash Rober ts 
 "My dragon.  "Those were strange words. But I had chosen her. 
Well, first she had chosen me. But I’d come around eventually.  
The rain had mostly stopped, bu t everything was wet and 
dripping. I slid down the wall and sat on the wet cobbled ground. It 
was starting to hit me just how much I’d lost. For all my bravado and 
anger, I didn’t know what to do. I was just a lonely girl abandoned by 
everyone and charged with the task of caring for something —no 
someone —that I knew nothing about.  
How would I feed her? How would I feed myself? And we 
couldn’t sleep in the courtyard like beggars. I slapped my hands 
against the wet brick, sending a wave of hot pain shooting fr om my 
palms up my arms. "Oww."  
Farean turned her attention from the fascinating dripping of a 
water spout. " That" "hurt". 
"I wasn’t trying to hurt you. I’m sorry. I’m just —I don’t know 
what to do. I’m supposed to take care of us both now, and I don’t 
even know how to take care of me."  
"I’ll take care of you". She climbed up the stairs to my side, and 
gently butted her head against mine, rubbing me with her skull. " See? 
Good rubs." 
"That’s  very nice, "I remembered to mind -speak to her. And it was. 
But it still didn’t solve our problem. " You have to understand,  Farean.  I 
don’t know how to be a Dragoneer.  I don’t even know how to live outside  a castle 
without  servants. " "You’d  be better off if we could somehow  break  our bond and 
find you someone  else. " 
She stopped rubbing me, staring at me with her huge birdlike eyes. 
I didn’t know if dragons could cry, but she looked like she was about 
to." You told the sad man and the angry boy you wouldn’t  leave me. You are a 
good Dragoneer  for me. The best for me. It’s why I want you." 
Well, at least someone wanted me, even if it was a dragon.  
I reached out and scratched the protective ridge over her eye, 
somehow knowing she’d love it. "We’ll figure it out," I told her, as 
she rumbled a dragon purr. "Together, we’ll figur e this out."  
Royal Dragoneer   42 
 Conflicting emotions boiled inside me, and I couldn’t tell where 
mine ended and hers began. So, I just stood there petting her as I 
tried to figure out a path forward that wouldn’t be disastrous for 
both of us.  
I caught motion in my peripheral  vision; Farean and I swiveled our 
heads towards it in unison.  
A dark, hooded, figure approached us.  
Instinctively, I moved in front of Farean to protect her, though I 
had no idea how or with what.  
"Stay back," I warned, "or I’ll —" I’ll draw a blank on wha t to 
threaten you with, apparently.  
Small, calloused hands reached up and pulled the hood back just 
enough to reveal the slender, familiar, face of my chamber maid.  
"What are you doing out here?" I demanded. "I thought you were 
some kind of attacker."  
She laughed. "Attacker? At the castle? Princess Kalia, you know 
that to get to this courtyard, you have to pass three different sets of 
guards."  
Farean leaned her long sinuous neck over my shoulder to peer at 
the maid, her snout close enough to sniff at the yo ung girl’s pores. 
To her credit, the maid took only one step back.  
"You remember Farean, I’m sure," I said.  
My maid nodded mutely.  
A sudden gust of wind knocked over a nearby barrel, sending it 
rolling, and Farean was off, chasing after it. She definitely liked to 
chase things.  
With the dragon some distance away, my maid found her voice 
again. Well, it looks like you were able to get cleaned up after all."  
I glared at her and she returned an awkward smile. I wanted to be 
angry with her but the ridiculousnes s of the situation caught up to me 
and I started to laugh.  
"Yeah, I guess I did. Apparently, dragons aren’t allowed in the 
castle."  
43  Ash Rober ts 
 "That’s a dumb rule." She smiled. It faded as the realization set in 
about what that meant for my future. "What will you do now? Will 
you go back to the hatching grounds and live with the other 
Dragoneers?" Was she worried about me, or her position as my 
maid? Father would probably just assign her somewhere else. She was 
good help, and he wouldn’t waste that just because he’d b anished his 
only daughter.  
"I can’t go back there." I shook my head. "Between the way 
Farean chose me and the way I behaved afterward, I don’t dare show 
myself. But where else can I keep a dragon? I have no idea."  
"My father is the royal swineherd," she of fered. "The barns are 
plenty big enough. Farean can stay there until you find somewhere 
more suitable."  
"She wouldn’t stay there without me," I pointed out.  
"Well, dad has an empty room now that I live in the maids’ 
quarters."  
Was she making fun of me, or trying to help? Because I’m not 
sure what would be funnier to a servant than her mistress living as a 
swineherd while she remained in the comfort of the castle. Still, I was 
pretty short on options and didn’t want to offend her. She was the 
only person who  had treated me decently since this whole dragon 
thing had happened.  
"Okay. I’ll figure out a way to repay you and your family. Thank 
you—" "Oh crap. I don’t remember  her name.  " 
"It’s Lunara, your majesty. I have been cleaning your quarters for 
over a yea r now."  
"I know. I’m sorry." Had it been that long? All the maids tended 
to run together in my mind. They all wore the same uniform and all 
sort of looked the same. Still, I should know her name.  
Lunara sighed. "It’s okay. I rather expect it at this point. " 
I started to protest, but she turned and disappeared back into the 
castle.  
"Come here, you," I called to Farean.  
Royal Dragoneer   44 
 She bounded over to me and attempted to push her muzzle into 
my hand. I backed away in fear, automatically, but she just kept 
coming until sh e got what she wanted. After a lifetime of avoiding 
dragons, it was going to take some getting used to being around one 
this much. But Farean was oblivious to my fear and prejudice. Either 
that or she was good at ignoring it.  
"Hey, can that giant nose of y ours smell pigs?" I asked, and she 
raised her snout into the wind, her lips curving up in a dragon grin.  
 
 
 
Farean’s cries, both audible and mental, woke me up before dawn.  
I rubbed the sleep from my eyes and wonder ed what time it was. I 
got up from my bed, if you could call it that. Pushing open a window 
overseeing Farean’s barn, I noticed that the sun wasn’t even up yet.  
The early spring air cut through the thin nightgown Lunara had 
left behind when she’d moved to the castle. I turned to retrieve the 
matching robe, but Farean let out another distressed Ka—li—a, 
stretching my name into three long syllables. I hoped this was some 
sort of phase. The first few weeks after the hatching had been tough 
for me emotionally, But after a week straight of being forced out of 
bed in the middle of the night, two, sometimes three or even four 
times, I knew I wouldn’t last much longer before I snapped.  
Obviously, the decision to leave the hatching grounds had been a 
mistake. But I couldn’t go back now. Too much time had passed. 
They might not even be there anymore. After the hatching was over, 
the Dragoneers went somewhere else to train, and I didn’t know 
where that might be. Father would know, of course, but he’d made 
his opinion o n the matter clear.  
I made my way through the dark house, careful not to wake 
Lunara’s father. Arriving at the stable, I lifted the heavy bar on the 
door and discovered Farean rolled over onto her side with a front 
claw pulling at her skull. Her two rear l egs were trying to join the 
fight too.  
"What are you doing?" I asked, inching closer to my thrashing 
dragon.  
"It hurts, " was all she would answer.  
"Hold still, I need to check your ear."  
Royal Dragoneer   46 
 She kept pulling at it, and I had to yank her front leg away to get i t 
free. In the passing month, Farean’s features had morphed to look 
more like mine. Dark blue scales had become pale and almost 
translucent. Her ears had lengthened and formed into a point. The 
process hadn’t been easy. Every growth spurt caused odd pains and 
scales to bind if she moved wrong. I’d taken to grooming her twice 
per day and still had these late night and early morning wakeups to 
look forward to.  
I found the problem. At the juncture between the ear and skull, 
one of her scales had pulled up and folded against her hide, twisting 
the sensitive part of the ear flesh.  
I gently lifted the scale and let it fall into place. The task complete, 
Farean’s cries immediately ceased. Since I was already up, I took the 
time to check for loose or damaged scales.  "This was a lot easier 
when you were smaller."  
"You couldn’t  ride me when I was smaller ." She had me there. In the 
past week, Farean had taken to the skies. At first, it was only short 
flutters through the air, like one of the chickens when the dragon 
spooked them. From there, she had worked her way up in skill and 
strength to the point where I’d risked a short flight with her two days 
ago. 
We made it mere feet off the ground before I lost my tenuous grip 
on her neck ridge and fell into the pig’s mud. The ron, Lunara’s father 
laughed at me as I spit the foul -smelling earth from my mouth.  
"From now, I’m staying on the ground," I told him. "If Elves were 
meant to fly, we’d have wings."  
In response, he had tossed a bucket of icy water over me.  
"What was that f or?" I sputtered, wiping brown streaks from my 
face. 
"I’m not letting you inside like that." He picked up a second 
bucket and dumped it over my head.  
I stormed off; trying to squeeze the dirty water from the rough 
hemp clothing I’d been reduced to wearing.  
47  Ash Rober ts 
 The next morning, a rawhide seat bound with rope greeted me at 
the breakfast, thrown over my chair. "What’s this?"  
"Something to make sure you don’t fall off next time," Theron 
said. "I’ve seen dragons overhead wearing similar. Theirs are 
undoubtedly bett er made. But this will get you started." He didn’t 
look up from his breakfast, not wanting to draw attention to his 
kindness.  
I spooned some of the meal into a bowl and sat across from him. 
How I missed hot breakfasts of steaming eggs topped with salty 
bacon, tarts, and pastries piled high plate. Instead, the tepid corn 
gruel crunched like sand in my mouth. And yet, this man with little 
money or food, had spent part of his hard work day making me a 
dragon saddle. Not only that, he’d been feeding, housing, a nd 
clothing me for a month, which was more than my father or Etlin 
had been willing to do, two men who supposedly loved me.  
"Theron, thank you," I said, a lump in my throat that wasn’t corn 
gruel. "But I’m not sure I should fly without training. It’s dange rous."  
He put down his spoon. "You are a Dragoneer now, Your 
Majesty. Dragoneers fly."  
I took a bite of thick porridge and swallowed it down, along with 
the lump. I didn’t want to cry in front of Theron. "I’m not a 
Dragoneer. I mean, I don’t feel like one.  More like a swineherd who 
just happens to have a dragon."  
"Fate chooses us, your majesty. I’ve found that fighting it brings 
nothing but unhappiness. And you are no swineherd, I assure you. 
The pigs don’t like you. You smell too much like dragon." He 
returned to his gruel.  
I stirred my spoon around in my bowl, his words no easier to 
digest than the food. He finished his breakfast and got up, putting his 
dish in the wash basin. On his way out to the pigs, he paused at the 
door. "Besides, you’ll have to fly to reach anyone with answers." 
With that, he plunged into the daylight, leaving me to my cold gruel 
and conflicting thoughts.  
Royal Dragoneer   48 
 Unable to stomach any more of either, I grabbed the makeshift 
saddle and found Farean sunning herself in the dirt. I dropped it ne xt 
to her snout, rousing her from her slumber. "You want to try this 
again?"  
It took me a bit to figure out the proper knots, but I soon found 
myself tied to a dragon’s back. I could barely move in the rigging, but 
at least I wouldn’t fall off this time. Farean reared up onto her hind 
legs and shook her back. I lost my grip and dangled backwards in my 
saddle, but I didn’t fall. "Stop that. Are you trying to throw me?"  
"It feels weird.  I don’t like it." She pouted but returned to four legs.  
"Well, get used to it, I’m not getting thrown off again like 
yesterday." She seemed to accept this and lumbered out to the street 
where should could get a better running start. Farean galloped down 
the lane and leapt into the air. With a powerful downbeat of her 
wings, we  were airborne. She kept low at first, in case the rigging 
didn’t hold. After completing a low circle around the farm, she 
pushed us higher and higher.  
Wind whipped at my face and hair, sending it in all directions. 
Brushing it when I landed would be a cho re. But if this was what 
flying felt like, it was a small price to pay.  
Then I swallowed a bug.  
I opened my mouth to whoop as we performed acrobatic loops 
over the city and a fat horsefly went straight inside. I felt the insect 
impact the back of my throat , and I started coughing. But instead of 
dislodging the loathsome creature, the hacking pushed it further 
down until I had no other choice but to swallow. I continued 
coughing and pounded on my chest, hoping to spit it back up.  
"What’s  wrong? " Farean turne d her head my direction, but her body 
followed and she banked hard right, sending me sideways and both 
of us heading head -first towards the ground.  
"Pull —"cough"—up, pull up."  
She returned her attention to the task at hand and we leveled out.  
"Pay attentio n to where you’re going," I scolded her. "You don’t 
need to look at me when we mind speak."  
49  Ash Rober ts 
 The beating of her wings slowed, and we dipped in the sky. I 
started to stay something, but she maintained the new altitude. " I felt 
you coughing  and got worried ". 
I pushed an image of hugging her, safely on the ground, and I 
could feel her body vibrate in the guttural growl she gave when 
content.  
"I just swallowed a bug," I admitted, glad no one could see my 
ears turn red. Not that anyone could have told with all th e windburn 
I was getting. Note to self, get some kind of hat or mask for flying.  
"Lucky.  "Farean flew faster, gaining confidence. " Bugs are tasty." 
I laughed. There hadn’t been much opportunity for mirth in the 
past month and it felt good to let it out. "I ’ll try to save it for you 
next time." The thought of trying to save bugs in my mouth for my 
dragon made me laugh even harder, doubling me over the saddle 
snorting and heaving for breath.  
Farean just shook her head and made another pass over the city.  
When  I finally regained control, the sun was getting low, and I 
directed her to land, skimming just over the chicken pen just to see 
their reaction.  
The rest of the week had been like that as we learned how to fly 
and navigate the air. And fortunately, I hadn’ t eaten any more bugs.  
As beautiful as that day was, it left me with a horrible, aching 
sadness. Farean was made to fly. She was born to be a dragon and 
spend her life doing dragonish things. It came naturally to her. But I 
was holding her back. Not just h er flying with my awkward guesses at 
how to ride, but with all of it. Her cries in the night kept me reeling. I 
never knew what to do and lived in constant fear that something 
would happen to her and it would be my fault. I hadn’t been trained 
as a hatchli ng candidate or a Dragoneer. I’d been raised to follow my 
duty and rule a country. This morning, it had been as simple as 
popping her scale back into place, but as she grew bigger, it would 
only get more complicated to care for her. And as much as I’d grow n 
attached to her —really attached —I couldn’t bear the thought that 
Farean would live as a lesser dragon because of me.  

 
 
 
I was beginning to forget my old life in the castle as a princess. 
Even the fact that I tho ught of it as "my old life" was strange. It 
seemed almost like a dream and flying on Farean had always been my 
reality. But then Lunara brought my old life to the forefront again, 
delivering a letter from Colonel Authand, now at the training grounds 
to the  West.  
 
Princess  Kalia,  
As a result of your alternate lodging arrangements, you missed 
the call to come to Tulta with the others. Raising a dragon 
hatchling for the first month on your own isn’t optimum, but 
given your unusual circumstances, I allowed it. Training a flying 
dragon, however, is another matter. Collect your belongings and 
meet Lewon at the castle for further instructions. You will follow 
him back to training camp tomorrow at first light.  
Colonel Authand  
 
Looking up from the missive, I asked Lu nara, "I don’t suppose 
you want to go, do you?" She shook her head; I couldn’t blame her. 
I’d never seen the training grounds. Until a month ago, I’d barely 
been outside the castle walls. I had just started to get used to my life 
as an exiled princess. The ron made me help on the farm, but he still 
treated me like royalty. Lunara had become something of a friend, 
something I’d never really had before. And now, here was the 
Colonel ordering me around like a servant. He could have at least 
said, "Please, colle ct your belongings." Or, "You can follow him back 
if you want." That would have been polite.  
Royal Dragoneer   52 
 "Tell them I’m not going." I crumpled the letter into a ball and 
shoved it into a pocket. I crossed my arms and waited for Lunara to 
scurry off with the news.  
She didn’t move other than to match my pose. "The Dragoneers 
don’t make requests. You need to go. Lewon is already at the castle 
waiting for you."  
"But your father needs my help here." I glanced at Theron. We 
were in his open -air workshop, and he was busy repa iring a trough 
that had sprung a leak.  
He looked up from his work. "I have to fix most of what you 
‘help’ me with. If you stay, I going to start charging you rent." Having 
said his piece, he returned to the wood.  
I pursed my lips and shook my head. "Well, then. I guess I’m 
going." I thought about what happened the last time I’d been at the 
castle —the confrontation with my father and then Etlin. I did not 
want to go back there. At all. But I felt stronger now somehow —I 
had changed since then —maybe even becau se of their rejection. 
Though I hoped I wouldn’t see either of them, or my mother, I 
wasn’t afraid to anymore. But I certainly wasn’t taking Farean. "Stay 
here," I told her. "I’ll be back tonight, and we will leave to meet other 
dragons tomorrow."  
"Okay ". She rolled over in the dried mud of the pen she had co-
opted  from the pigs.  
I sighed; if we were going anywhere, I’d have to bathe her in the 
pond. I wasn’t about to introduce myself to other Dragoneers on a 
muddy beast.  
"But bring me something  to eat. All this pork is getting  boring ". 
"Don’t be rude," I scolded her, glancing at Theron, who, of 
course, couldn’t hear her. "We’re guests here."  
"Sorry. " Her voice sounded more petulant than remorseful.  
That was something I’d have to work with her. " Oh, gods. When had 
I become  my mother? " 
I turned my attention back to Lunara, who waited with her arms 
still crossed.  
53  Ash Rober ts 
 "Don’t worry too much," she said. "She’s still young. Besides, I 
lived here for fourteen years, and pork for dinner every night does 
get old."  
"She st ill needs to learn some manners. Wait! You could hear our 
conversation?"  
Lunara lowered her head, but otherwise gave no indication of 
hearing me. She turned to leave the workshop, and I followed after 
her. "How did you know what Farean said?"  
"It’s a gift." She kept her voice low, as if sharing a secret that she 
didn’t want others to hear, even though we were the only ones 
around. "I’ve always been able to hear them. I wanted to be a 
Dragoneer, but father insisted I become one of the court maids 
instea d." 
It suddenly struck me that you didn’t have to be a princess to get 
stuck in society’s expectations for you. I grabbed Lunara’s hand, and 
we both looked down, shocked. But I didn’t let go. "I’ll see what I 
can do about getting you to the next hatching. Maybe you can be one 
of my mother’s ladies in waiting and ‘accidently’ bond with a dragon 
like I did."  
She looked up into my face, "I couldn’t impose like that."  
"Come on. I’m going to need a friendly face at this training camp."  
She smiled and dropped my hand. We walked the rest of the way 
to the castle in silence as we dealt with our own thoughts about the 
future.  
Thankfully, Mother and Father were away for the day on 
diplomatic business. The guards at the gate and doors let us pass 
without comment, thoug h I could see them eyeing each other as I 
passed. Was I still the gossip of the castle after all this time? Funny, 
because I barely thought of the people here anymore.  
Lewon lounged in the receiving room with his boot -clad feet 
propped up on an antique ben ch. When we entered, he stood and 
held out his hand. Remembering the embarrassment from last time, I 
shook it. "So, we meet again," I said. "You must be one of the 
Royal Dragoneer   54 
 Colonel’s favorites to get to come retrieve me." I had meant it to be 
funny, or sarcastic, b ut I instead it just came out mean.  
He recoiled at the remark, plastering a fake smile on his face as he 
said, "Most of us don’t get to do whatever we want without 
consequence."  
"I’m sorry. I didn’t mean it like that." I tried to backtrack. "It’s 
just—you witnessed my meltdown at the hatching, and I’m not 
proud of it. It’s something I’d like to forget."  
Lunara arched an eyebrow at me, fidgeting with desire to ask 
about that. I thought the castle gossip vine would have delivered that 
story to her weeks ago, but apparently not. Most likely, Father had 
forbidden those in our party from speaking of it. " Did he know where 
I’d been for the past month?  Did he even care?" 
Lewon just kept smiling, but it seemed a little more genuine now. I 
liked how his smirk brought  out his dimples. He had nice hazel eyes 
and dirty blonde hair. He broke eye contact and looked downward 
towards the floor. At least, I hoped it was the floor. He just as well 
could have been checking out my chest. "You can try to forget," he 
said. "But no ne of the other Dragoneers are likely to let you. I mean, 
I saw it, but"  everyone " heard about it. It’s literally been used in training 
as a precautionary tale."  
My ears reddened. Great. If I did go to this training camp, I would 
be surrounded by peers who  had already judged me.  
"Have you found a place in the city to stay tonight?" I tried to 
change the subject.  
"Not yet, Your Majesty. I wanted to make sure I didn’t miss you 
when you arrived. But I’ll probably stay at the Tooth and Nail. I 
know the owner."  
I’d heard rumors about the place. It was owned by a Nightblood 
and didn’t have the best reputation.  
But I didn’t say that. I was trying to make a good second 
impression. "Please, call me Kalia," I said instead, batting my lashes. I 
was terrible at flirting , and I hadn’t really meant to. But Etlin had left 
me weeks ago, and I’d had no contact with boys my age since. "Have 
55  Ash Rober ts 
 you had anything to eat since you arrived? Flying always makes me so 
hungry."  
"No, I haven’t," he said, giving me a real, genuine grin fin ally. 
"And flying makes everyone hungry. It’s the exhilaration and the 
energy it requires to sync perfectly with your dragon."  
"Exactly!" I smiled back. Now we were getting somewhere, and it 
was so nice to talk to someone who understood what it meant to ri de 
a dragon. I turned to Lunara. "Please, take Lewon to the kitchen and 
get him something to eat. And grab something non -porky for Farean, 
if you can. Mutton perhaps? I need to get a few things from my 
room, and then I’ll be heading back to —where I’ve been  staying." I 
hoped Lunara would forgive me for not wanting to say, "the swine 
farm." "How about if I meet by the gates in the morning," I 
suggested to Lewon. That way he wouldn’t see where I’d been living 
and gain one more story of my spiral into peasantry  to tell the other 
Dragoneers.  
"Um, okay." Lewon said, looking worried. "But if you don’t show 
up, it will be my hide. My instructions were not to let you out of my 
sight once I found you."  
"I will be there with my dragon," I promised.  
"Follow me, sir." Lu nara curtsied to him and pointed in the 
direction of the kitchen. He followed eagerly, and as they crossed the 
threshold, I heard my former maid ask, "So what did the princess do 
at the hatching?"  
I shook my head and moved in the other direction. It felt b oth 
strange and familiar to be in my old home, like I was a ghost visiting 
a past life. Even the servants I passed ignored me, as if I were a 
phantom or a shadow. They probably didn’t want any liability or 
blame for me being there when my parents were away . But they 
couldn’t exactly kick me out either. At the top of the stairs, I 
detoured to the baths. There was no way I could pass up this chance 
to revel in hot water and the scented soaps that my mother always 
bought. I turned on the water, and then went t o my room. It was just 
as I’d left it, complete with the covers thrown back from when I’d 
Royal Dragoneer   56 
 been summoned downstairs to tend to Farean. Mother hadn’t even 
let the maids in? That seemed odd.  
I sat on the bed, trying to decide what I needed to pack. I 
absentmi ndedly ran my hand over the soft fleece of the bedcovers. 
The sensation was a stark contrast from the rough wool I’d been 
sleeping under. " Blanket ", I thought. " Definitely  packing  this blanket ". 
 
 
 
Lunara found me  dozing in the bath. "I finished packing for you," 
she said as she set a towel on the tub’s edge.  
"You didn’t have to do that, I was going to finish."  
She shook her head. "I did if you wanted to get back before dark."  
"Well, thank you. I was in here a litt le longer than I meant to be." 
I held up my pruney fingers.  
"I know." She smiled. "The baths are of my favorite parts of 
working in the castle. I’ll meet you in your room," she said, leaving to 
give me some privacy as I dried off.  
Back in my chamber, she h ad laid out a few clean dresses next to a 
large sack bag. I had never seen it before. When I traveled in the past, 
I’d used expensive and heavy cedar trunks to cart around our 
mountains of clothes. She must have gotten the bag from one of the 
other servant s. She was such a good maid. I’d have to put in a good 
word for her with Father —I stopped in my tracks, marveling at how 
easily and quickly I’d fallen back into the thought patterns of an over -
privileged princess. I wasn’t technically a noble anymore. Luna ra 
wasn’t my servant; she was my friend. And Father couldn’t care less 
about my recommendations. Being at the castle again was playing 
strange tricks on my mind. I needed to get out of there.  
As Lunara helped me lace up my corset, she said, "You are going 
to need pants for riding Farean. And for every day. I don’t think 
Dragoneers wear dresses much."  
"I don’t own any pants," I groaned. "All a princess is supposed to 
wear are dresses. And gods forbid I ever get them dirty."  
Royal Dragoneer   58 
 She started to speak but I held up  a hand, placing it on her 
shoulder. "I appreciate being able to wear your clothes at your 
father’s, but you are three inches taller than me and bigger in the 
chest." I looked down my dress. It felt odd to be wearing one again, 
but at least it fit without stepping on the hem or using a belt to keep 
it from sliding off. "I’m sorry, but your clothes look ridiculous on 
me." 
"Yes, they do." She grinned. Then her face grew serious "Your 
parents just arrived home. Wouldn’t you like to talk to them before 
you leav e?" 
"Um, no!" I snapped, panicking and drawing the thin rope that 
closed the bag, ready to take it and run. "Do they know I’m here?"  
"Not yet," Lunara said. "But they will soon enough."  
"I’m not sure they want to talk to me." I frowned. She grabbed my 
bag and led me down to my parents’ sitting room. As I entered, 
Father looked up from the scroll he was reading. His eyes burned 
with anger but he said nothing. Instead, he brought his gaze back 
down to what he was reading, as if ignoring me would make me cease  
to exist and ruin his perfect family.  
Mother saw me and rushed to her feet. "Oh, Kalia, we’ve missed 
you so much." She wrapped her arms around me in a bear hug that 
threatened to cut off my ability to breathe. I hugged her back, 
lowering my head to her sh oulder. I willed myself not to cry, only 
partially succeeding.  
I looked up briefly to where my father continued ignoring me. 
"One of you has at least," I murmured.  
She pulled back slightly and studied my face. "What was that?"  
"Nothing," I lied. I didn’t s ee the point in starting an argument. "I 
just miss you so much."  
"Then come home, silly." She rocked us side to side as she spoke, 
providing a cadence to the singsong quality of her statement.  
"Father won’t let me." Why did my mouth refuse to cooperate on 
Mission: Don’t Start an Argument?  
59  Ash Rober ts 
 "Of course, he will." She turned us to the side and craned her head 
towards Father’s chair. "Won’t you, dear?" In answer, he shook the 
slack from the scroll and continued reading. She seemed to take this 
as an affirmation.  "All you have to do is get rid of that pesky dragon 
and everything will go back to normal."  
I pulled away from her. "I’m trying to. But I resent the idea that I 
am only worth your love if I’m capable of getting rid something. 
Something that only happened because FATHER made me go 
somewhere I didn’t want to. This is really his fault."  
From behind the parchment, my father growled. I took a step 
back from Mother, crossing my arms over my chest. "Sometimes 
things happen and we have to deal with them. You taugh t me that 
lesson. Why does it apply to me and not to you?"  
"Don’t you take that tone of voice with me, young lady." Her eyes 
narrowed. She leaned forward with her hands on her hips. "I will not 
be sassed by my daughter."  
My arms exploded into the air. "Wel l, it’s a good thing that Farean 
keeps me from being your daughter anymore." I stomped to the door 
and slammed it closed in the most unladylike fashion I could muster. 
I couldn’t believe they were being this way. Well, if they didn’t want 
me, I could live without all of their stupid rules anyway.  
Lunara stood in the hallway with my pack. She studied her shoes 
intently. "I -" 
"Hold that thought." I held a finger up. I marched back to the 
door and pushed it open. Mother hadn’t moved since my outburst 
and Father looked up from the scroll again. "And another thing. You 
should promote Lunara. She’s a great maid. Plus, she took care  of me 
when you wouldn’t." I started pulling the door back closed but 
paused. "Not that you care about that." I slammed the door for the 
second time in as many minutes.  
Lunara’s ears were completely red. "You shouldn’t have done that, 
your majesty."  
I shoo k my head. "It’s the least I could do for all you’ve done for 
me." I looked down. "I just hope I didn’t get you fired instead."  
Royal Dragoneer   60 
 "I really do appreciate everything you and your father have done 
for me, and I promise to do what I can to get you an in with th e 
dragons."  
I didn’t think I was going to get any more conversation from her, 
so I changed the subject. "Alright, let me take my bag so you can get 
back to work, I’m sure you’re behind from having to come fetch 
me." 
She gripped the strap and then let go ov er it. She slid it off her 
shoulder and handed the pack to me. The weight surprised me, and I 
almost dropped it. I recovered and slid it onto my back. My knees 
protested the addition but I locked them into place. Lunara carried it 
so effortlessly; I was em barrassed that I was so weak compared to 
her. 
She smiled and gave me a warm hug, whispering "Thank you," in 
my ear. I wasn’t sure what for, though. It was she who had helped 
me. 
I stood in the corridor for a moment, processing the realization 
that I was le aving my home for good. This time I wasn’t being 
thrown out. I was choosing to leave. Suddenly, the doorknob across 
the hall rattled, and I barreled toward the back servants’ stairs, taking 
them two at a time, my gear on my back threatening to tumble over 
me. 
At the bottom, I glanced over my shoulder to check if I’d been 
followed. And I walked right into Lewon.  
"Oomph." Off balance and propelled by the heavy carpet bag, I 
didn’t just walk into him; we collided with a solid smack. My body 
literally plastered  itself against his, and then seemed to cling there for 
a moment before it decided to bounce off, hurling me backwards. 
Instinctively, he put his arms out and around me to catch me. Which 
worked. It worked very well indeed. I was captured by muscled 
biceps  and pinned against a well -defined chest. Unlike Etlin, Lewon 
was obviously accustomed to hard labor. I caught my breath, looking 
up at his stubbled chin. His silk shirt fell slightly open at the neck 
61  Ash Rober ts 
 right where my face was, and he smelled —he smelled like  oiled 
leather and the earthy scent of dragons.  
"I—my parents —I have to get out of here," I stammered.  
Slowly and almost reluctantly, he removed his arms from around 
me, a strange look on his face. "You’ve had a bath. And you have a 
dress on that actually fits." This time I was sure he was checking out 
my chest. "You clean up nice." He smiled, his dimples winking at me. 
"I almost didn’t recognize you."  
"Yeah, well, I am a princess," I said. "We’re raised to clean up 
nice."  
"Of course, Your Majesty," he said , his back gone stiff and his 
smile gone.  
"Oh, for Farr’s sake. Will you knock it off? I have a dragon just 
like you, remember? Everybody has made it obvious that I can’t be 
nobility and a Dragoneer. This is my new life now. I’m not above 
anybody else."  
"Fair enough," he said. "I’ll try to remember that." He didn’t relax.  
"Sorry for being curt. You surprised me. Guests usually aren’t 
allowed in this part of the castle."  
"I was exploring the castle when I heard shouting."  
I grimaced. Somebody overhearing fam ily business ranked as one 
of the few things could possibly get my parents madder than they 
already were "No, it’s fine. I was just heading back to Farean."  
"I’ll walk with you as into town," Lewon said. "If your mystery lair 
lies in the same direction, th at is." " My mystery  lair?" Oh, I really 
couldn’t let him know it was a pig farm now.  
"They are in the same direction," I said, feeling glad they were. 
"But what about your dragon?"  
"Calen will find me when he’s ready," Lewon laughed. "He got a 
whiff of a f emale dragon in heat just outside the city limits. He 
couldn’t get back there fast enough after he dropped me at the 
castle."  
I did not know how to respond to that. Farean was my 
companion, my dragon, but I hadn’t even thought about her mating 
Royal Dragoneer   62 
 someday. And  how did that work when you had a telepathic and 
emotional link with the creature mating? Or in reverse? What about 
me when I’d been pressed up against Lewon. Had Farean felt that? 
"Oh my god, this is not good." 
"So, can I accompany you?" Lewon asked,  a glint in his eyes as 
they stared into mine.  
"Yes, of course, it’s a date." I clapped my hands over my mouth, 
realizing what I’d just said. I pretended to wipe my mouth and let my 
hands fall back to my side. "Not a date. Just an evening stroll."  
I was bl ushing. I could feel the heat on my face. I could feel the 
heat other places as well. What had gotten into me?  
"You’re cute when you blush," Lewon said, reaching out to brush 
a tendril of my hair away from my pink cheek.  
My eyes grew wide. I couldn’t breat he or move a muscle. Lewon’s 
look was difficult to read. His body arched over mine, as if trying to 
protect me from the rest of the world. His eyes glinted with 
something wild yet determined, and his mouth curved into a sexy but 
still boyish smile. For a m oment, I couldn’t tell if he was happy or 
frustrated with me. I took comfort in thinking maybe he was just as 
confused as I was.  
I exhaled slowly, and I counted backwards, using all the tricks my 
etiquette tutor had taught me for calming down in a tense si tuation.  
It must have worked, because he blinked and moved a step back 
from me.  
"Shall we go?" I asked, gesturing towards the servants’ back exit.  
"Of course. Here, let me take that." He reached for my bag, but I 
pulled away.  
"I can do it. I want to learn to carry my own weight."  
"Good," he said, giving me a friendly smile. "Because as a 
Dragoneer, sometimes you have to carry your weight and your 
dragon’s. Not literally, of course. That would crush you. But you 
know what I mean."  
63  Ash Rober ts 
 And I really did. Caring fo r Farean was a burden, hard labor, and a 
challenge all rolled into one —but I was determined to do what was 
best for her. No matter what.  

 
 
 
During our evening stroll, Lewon told me about his life growing 
up on the outer edge of Darneta, almost to the back woods of Fawla. 
I just listened. I couldn’t really compare my life to his. What would I 
say? That I had lived a sheltered life in a castle and caught Farean’s 
attention by acting like a brat? He already knew that.  
The road to the Tooth led to the outskirts of town, almost to the 
farmland. My pig farm home was just a bit beyond it.  
"So, what are you doing living all the way out here?" Lewon asked. 
"Surely your father could provide better facilities for his daughter a nd 
her dragon."  
"My father wants nothing to do with me or my dragon," I said. 
"He kicked me out of the castle onto the street because I wouldn’t 
give her up."  
Lewon stopped in his tracks. "How dare he?"  
"He’s the King and a very stubborn man. That’s how. P lease, let’s 
just drop it. I really don’t want to talk about that."  
"To throw you and your dragon on the street —it’s unthinkable." 
Lewon said, not dropping it at all. "Dragons are the most precious 
resource in all of Darneta. Nay, in the entire world. Colo nel Authand 
will hear about this."  
It was getting dark, just that time before the sun completely sets 
when everything looks shadowy and weird. The brush rustled in the 
woods at the side of the road, but there was no wind. I figured it was 
probably squirrel s and just kept going. A branch snapped. A large 
one. Too big to be broken by a small animal. I stopped.  
Royal Dragoneer   66 
 Lewon took a few more steps before realizing I wasn’t moving 
and halted as well. "What’s wrong?"  
"There’s something in the woods. I think it’s followin g us.’  
"It’s probably just an ani —" A Goblin leapt from a nearby tree, 
pinning me to the ground. I shrieked and clawed at him, but he was 
heavy, his maw coming towards my face as if to take a bite. I heard a 
thump and metal sliding against metal. The Gobli n’s weight shifted, 
and he slumped next to me.  
Lewon stood over me with a dagger in his left hand, dripping 
blood. "Are you okay?"  
I nodded, fighting to get control of my breathing, which was 
coming in terrified gasps. Still, I managed to sit up.  
He seemed  to take my affirmation at face value and stepped to the 
edge of the woods to wipe his dagger in the grass before sliding it 
back in a hidden sheath in his right sleeve.  
My heart pounded, and I was still hyperventilating. As I tried to 
calm down, I realize d how ridiculous I must seem to him. I was still 
prone on the ground freaking out, while he casually cleaned his 
weapon after killing in a single motion. If I joined the Dragoneers, 
would it affect me like that? Would I kill that easily? Would it become 
my first instinct?  
Lewon held out his hand and I took it. He pulled me up and set 
me back on me feet, his arms briefly circling around my waist. Then, 
he turned his attention to the dead Goblin.  
The danger had passed, and I was on my feet, but my heart beat 
faster and faster. Why couldn’t I catch my breath? I didn’t normally 
react to danger this way. What was wrong with me? Was I having an 
attack of the heart, like the one that killed my grandmother before I 
was born?  
Lewon looked up from where he crouched, r ifling through the 
dead Goblin’s belongings.  
I staggered and fell to my knees. I could hear Farean screaming in 
my head, but that was ridiculous. We hadn’t even made it to the inn 
yet, and the farm was two miles beyond that.  
67  Ash Rober ts 
 Lewon rushed to my side, grabbi ng my shoulders and pulling me 
up. "You need to calm down."  
"I—I can’t." The world spun around me. How could I be moving 
if he was holding me upright?  
"No, you need to calm down. Tell Farean you are okay. She is 
freaking out and overloading your system wit h adrenaline. If both of 
you don’t pull it together, your heart will stop."  
Nothing like telling me that I was about to die to get me settled. "I 
can’t," I panted. "She’s not here."  
"Do it," he shouted, shaking me roughly.  
The pounding continued. This was it; my heart was going to 
explode in my chest.  
If I’d been in a better state of mind, I would have seen it coming. 
Maybe I could have even blocked it. But Lewon slapped me hard 
enough to see stars. "Tell her" he screamed.  
"Farean," I said aloud and in my m ind too. "I’m okay. We’re 
okay."  
Immediately, my heart slowed. The edge of my panic blunted, and 
my breathing slowed. I became aware of the fact that I was sitting on 
the ground in my dress, with Lewon’s arms wrapped around me and 
a dead Goblin laid out ne xt to me. For some reason, that fact didn’t 
seem to bother me as much as it had a minute ago. I didn’t want to 
pull away from Lewon’s embrace. It felt so good. But I wanted him 
to know I was okay. "I’m sorry," I said. "I don’t know what 
happened. I’ve neve r been attacked before, but I didn’t think I would 
freak out like that."  
"It wasn’t you." He looked down into my face, his mouth very 
close to mine. "It was your bond with Farean. She felt the attack and 
got scared. Don’t be surprised if she shows up any m inute. Actually, 
we should both have our dragons with us." His eyes looked off in the 
distance for a moment, his lips moving slightly as he had a 
conversation I couldn’t hear. Did I move my lips like that when I 
mind -spoke with Farean?  
Royal Dragoneer   68 
 "How can you talk to  your dragon from so far?" I asked, pulling 
out of his arms. "And Farean isn’t coming; she doesn’t know where 
we are."  
I’m coming,  Kalia.  
Well, that made me feel silly. And it quickly morphed into anger. 
"Will you tell me what’s going on?" I pushed against  Lewon’s chest.  
We untangled from each other and both stood up.  
"You really don’t know anything about dragons, do you?" He 
asked.  
"That’s not fair," I said. "Everything I know, I’ve had to teach 
myself. Or Farean has taught me." I glared at him, but he was  right. 
This time, what I didn’t know had almost killed me. Next time, it 
might harm or kill Farean. That thought was unbearable. It would be 
like rending myself in two if she died. Where was she? What if she 
got netted by Goblins on the way to me? There c ould be more in the 
woods.  
Then, I heard the "fwap" of beating dragon wings and saw Farean 
clear the tree line. She landed by the dead Goblin and sliced into the 
body with her talons, stabbing with a fury I’d not seen in her before. 
I reached out to her. " It’s dead. It can’t hurt us anymore. " She took one 
more jab at the skull, with enough force to crack it open, before 
turning her attention to me.  
"Are you okay?  What  happened?  I felt you and got scared.  I’ll kill anyone  
that hurts you. Are you okay? " 
The questions kept coming until I placed my arms around her 
neck, sending her every reassuring thought I could muster. "I’m fine. 
It was over before it began, thanks to Lewon."  
Farean swiveled her head, noticing the man next to me for the 
first time. " He smells like dragon.  Where  is his dragon? " 
I started to explain where Calen was when the beat of wings 
announced his arrival.  
Lewon’s green landed a few feet from us, and the two dragons 
squared off, appraising each other. I felt my panic returning. A green 
69  Ash Rober ts 
 just like this had killed my grandfather in front of my eyes. And now 
it looked like he wanted to kill Farean.  
Farean hissed, feeding off my fear. She extended her neck and 
arched her wings, trying to make herself appear as large as possible. 
The older dragon still had the size advantage and batted her with the 
bony edge of his wing.  
I felt the hit as if it were to my own face. It didn’t particularly hurt, 
more like a scolding than an attack. Farean snorted. " Don’t  patronize  
me. If you are going to attack,  do so properly ". 
"No, wait!" I ran to intercept them, throwing myself between the 
two creatures. Farean’s nose pushed against my back. I reached 
behind me to shove her away. Of course, my measly human efforts 
had no effect on a beast so much larger than myself . "What are you 
doing? He’s twice your size and trained. You wouldn’t stand a 
chance."  
"I could take him". She huffed.  
Calen’s eyes bored into me.  
Farean wrapped a claw around me and drew me back from the 
green dragon. " He’s trying to decide  whether  you’re  worth the trouble  to kill so 
he can get to me." 
Calen suddenly tilted his head towards Lewon and dropped his 
shoulders. He glowered at us, but didn’t advance otherwise.  
"No one is attacking anyone," Lewon said, taking a step towards 
us. He looked at his d ragon. "They are our allies."  
Lewon turned towards Farean and me, his hands out in a gesture 
of peace. "We all have a lot of residual tension right now from the 
attack. It’s messing with our emotions. Let’s all calm down. Farean, I 
know you can’t back down  without losing face. Neither can Calen. 
So, on the count of three, everyone will back down together. Nobody 
loses." He swiveled his head between my dragon and his. He raised 
his hands up above his shoulders. "Okay? One. Two. Three. Now." 
He dropped his ha nds and the two beasts returned to their normal 
postures.  
Royal Dragoneer   70 
 "How did you do that? Farean wouldn’t listen to me." " I couldn’t  
control  her. I had always  been able to control  her before,  but not this time". She 
wasn’t a baby anymore. She was developing a mind of her own.  
He shrugged. "Dragons are pack animals, always sorting each 
other for dominance. When you put a bunch of them together, you 
have to learn how to defuse situations before they turn into attacks. 
But don’t worry. You’ll learn it quick enough."  
My eyes settled on the body in the path. He followed my gaze. 
"These woods aren’t safe anymore. You’ll need something to defend 
yourself with."  
Lewon crouched over the Goblin and searched through its 
clothing. He found a crooked dagger in a thigh sheath and pulled 
them both off. "It’s Goblin steel, worthless in most situations, but it’s 
better than nothing. At the training grounds, we can get you outfitted 
with quality gear."  
I examined the blade and sheath. I looked at my waist, trying to 
figure out a way to  attach it. I certainly wasn’t going to reach inside 
my skirt for a weapon.  
Lewon realized my dilemma and removed the belt from the 
Goblin’s body. I shrank back from the grimy leather. He stared at 
me, but I wouldn’t touch it.  
"Fine," he said and removed h is own belt. He strung the sheath 
through the braided cords and handed it to me, then wrapped the 
Goblin belt around his own waist. I tied the belt over my skirts as he 
nodded. "Keep that handy. Even when you get home. You never 
know when another greyskin will show up.  
I pursed my lips at the slur. I knew what it meant, but nobody had 
ever been crude enough to use in in front of me.  
If Lewon saw my discomfort at his words, he didn’t show it. 
Instead, he turned to his dragon. "Get rid of the body." The green  
picked up what was left of the Goblin after Farean’s evisceration and 
went airborne. With a flick of his wrist, the dragon tossed it into the 
woods for scavengers to take care of and landed, this time well clear 
of Farean.  
71  Ash Rober ts 
 Lewon looked at the sun. "Since the dragons are here, we might as 
well fly. It will be safer."  
I looked at Farean’s back. "I don’t have my harness with me."  
He chewed on his lower lip. "Okay, we’ll walk. But I’m not leaving 
your side until you are safely home. I was charged to bring you back 
to Tulta and that’s what I intend to do. Besides, I can’t afford to lose 
someone as important as you."  
I looked down, unable to meet his eye. He meant because I was a 
princess, of course. That had to be. He couldn’t mean that I was 
important to him pe rsonally, could he?  
After a long dusty, mostly silent walk, with our dragons flying 
overhead to scan the woods around us, we were finally at Theron’s. 
Lewon walked in with me and met Theron, them shaking hands like 
old friends. Lewon explained about the at tack on the road, and 
Theron offered him and Calen a place in one of the barns for the 
night. After we’d all had some food and drink, Lewon headed for the 
door.  
I followed him out, to make sure Farean was settled, but then I 
could hear her snoring from her  stable. I was surprised when Lewon 
paused on the porch and took my hands in his. "You’ve certainly 
made my day interesting. I’m going to enjoy flying with you 
tomorrow." He smiled, looking down at me.  
I leaned forward, willing him to close the gap between  us. He saw 
the motion and pulled back. "Get some sleep. We’ll leave just after 
dawn." He drew my hand to his mouth and kissed it, confusing me 
even more, before loping into the dark towards the barn.  
I stood for a few moments, under the moonlight, only to  see 
Farean lumbering towards me.  
"I got a quick nap. "She said, coming up and rubbing my face with 
her muzzle" . Now,  I will stand watch". 
"Don’t be silly. You need more sleep. You have the hard part 
tomorrow."  
"Fine". She coiled her body in front of the d oor, resting her head 
on her front legs. " I will sleep here then. Nothing  will get past me". 
Royal Dragoneer   72 
 I smiled and patted her head. "Goodnight." I closed the door 
behind me and leaned against it, trying to keep my thoughts still until 
I heard her snoring again.  
There it was —halfway between a growl and a purr —the most 
endearing sound I’d ever heard.  
I pressed my back against the hard door, fighting tears. This day 
had reminded me of the other side of having a dragon —the 
dangerous and wild side that had killed my gran dfather. That had 
been easy to forget while Farean was smaller and cuter, and we lived 
on a pig farm.  
I had often wondered why my grandfather had run out to 
confront a huge beast wielding only a sword. I had never asked my 
mother or father. I knew, even as  a small child, it was not a question 
I was allowed to voice. But, in my own mind, I’d often thought it had 
been foolish of him. Everyone knew a man couldn’t defeat a dragon. 
Only a dragon could match a dragon.  
And today, my little dragon had faced off aga inst a full -grown 
green, and all that terror had come rushing back. That was when I 
realized I was being as foolish as my grandpa. I had vastly 
overestimated my ability to handle a dragon.  
Lewon’s words came rushing back to me —You really don’t know 
anythin g about dragons,  do you?"  " 
He was right. I hadn’t known my fear would scare Farean so 
much, or that her response could actually kill me. I hadn’t known I 
could call her from far away, or that she could hone in on my 
location. And I had absolutely no idea how dragons related to other 
dragons, or how Dragoneers related to one another. Which had all 
lead me to make a decision on our silent march home, though I had 
fought not to think of it until now. My heart ached, but I also knew it 
was the right thing to d o for Farean. Because I loved her.  
I ran my hand over the rough grain of the door separating us and 
swallowed my sobs.  
I wouldn’t be getting much in the way of sleep tonight.  
 
 
 
They’re  here. Kalia,  wake up. They’re  here"." 
I opened my eyes, squinting into the rising sun streaming through 
my window. A cool breeze carried the scent of the caked mud and 
excrement from the stable. I wasn’t going to miss that part of my 
morning wakeup routine. Rubbing my eyes, I searched  for the clothes 
I’d dropped on the floor the night before. My hair was a mess, but it 
would get much worse than that flying, so instead of fixing it, I 
stumbled out to the kitchen. Lewon sat at the table chatting with 
Theron. I ignored them and went for t he pot of brewed stimleaf. I 
chugged the beverage and let out the most unladylike belch. For 
dignity’s sake, they pretended not to hear me.  
Lewon stood. "Are you ready to go?"  
"Almost."  I hugged Theron. "Thank you for everything. I couldn’t 
have made it through this month without you."  
He wrapped his arms around me. "You would have been fine. 
You’re more resilient than you think."  
I sniffed, fighting to keep the tears from falling. "Once  I’m on 
better terms with my father, I’ll —" 
"I already have everything I could want from your father. Just 
don’t be a stranger. Visit me when you’re at the capital."  
I nodded, backing away from him. "I will."  
Outside, Farean paced in front of the house, tu rning at every 
sound coming from the woods. " Can we go now? Goblins  could attack  any 
moment ". 
I laughed.  
Royal Dragoneer   74 
 Lewon leaned in and whispered, "Don’t tell her we’ll be traveling 
closer to the Goblin encampments." The laugh died on my lips. I 
didn’t like the idea of heading towards danger, but I at least I’d be 
surrounded by dozens of dragons and trained Dragoneers.  
I lashed my bag to Farean’s forepaw and assembled my makeshift 
harness. Lewon arched an eyebrow at it but said nothing. Calen 
snorted and shook his hea d. I ignored them. If they wanted me to 
have a proper harness, they should have brought one. Tightening the 
last knot securing me to Farean’s back, I leaned in close. " Let’s show 
them what we can do". 
Without warning, she reared and leapt into the sky, bea ting her 
wings as we flew higher and higher. Looking back, I saw Lewon 
finish fastening his harness and take off after us. Aided by Calen’s 
larger size, they caught up quickly. Farean flapped harder, taking us 
closer to the clouds. Calen banked and then ro se above us. He 
coasted overhead, pushing us lower. "Save your energy," Lewon 
shouted. "We have a lot of flying to do today."  
I stuck out my tongue, but we descended to a more comfortable 
altitude. We flew in silence with Lewon and his dragon a few feet to  
our left. Remembering the bug incident from the week before, I 
fished out my scarf from a pocket on my gingham dress and wrapped 
it around my face. The wind still stung my eyes and made them 
water. I was about to add goggles to my mental list of things I 
needed, and then remembered I wouldn’t be needing them.  
"What  are Googles? " Farean asked. " Do I need them? " 
"Not Googles.  Goggles.  "I corrected her, thankful for the laugh to 
cover my sudden sadness."  And no, you don’t need them. That’s  what your 
second  eyelids are for." 
We fell behind the other dragon. At first, it was barely noticeable, 
but as the day progressed, Lewon got further and further ahead of us, 
until I could barely see the spade -shaped flutter of Calen’s tail.  
Lewon noticed this as well, and th ey began to descend, waving us 
down as they went.  
75  Ash Rober ts 
 Farean landed next to them in a clearing by a stream. After 
extracting myself from the harness, she lumbered over and started 
lapping up water.  
"We will rest for an hour and then start again." Lewon pulled a 
drinking flask out of his coat and filled it upstream from the dragons. 
"We made good time. We should only need to stop three or four 
more times before we make it to the training grounds." He pulled 
some strips of jerky out of another pocket and offered me one.  
Taking it, I glanced at our companions as the green found a spot 
free of shadows and spread out in it, soaking up the sun like a giant 
cat. "What about them?" I held up my jerky.  
Lewon shook his head. "If they eat, they’ll get tired and not fly as 
well. Under extreme conditions, a dragon can go three days without 
any food and still fly." He looked in my eyes, and then away, a little 
smile on his face.  
I nodded, unsure what to say. I felt like I was being flirted with, 
but it was awkward. Lewon didn’ t seem awed by my status, but then I 
had no idea what my status was anymore. How did Dragoneers flirt? 
I’d never really been courted or wooed. I’d been matched with Etlin 
when I was still a toddler. Both of us always assumed we’d be 
together, and it had be en comfortable and settled. And boring. How 
many girlfriends had Lewon had? Maybe he had one now. The 
thought was disturbing. How could I find out? I couldn’t just ask.  
Farean found her own sunny spot and rolled onto her side, 
exposing her belly to the ray s. I climbed up to her forepaw and rested 
against her. Together we dozed in the light as if we hadn’t a care in 
the world. Too soon, Lewon motioned for us to get ready. Up in the 
sky, we continued east, the wind reducing conversation to only the 
most neces sary orders.  
"What  do you think of Lewon? " I asked Farean.  
"I don’t trust him or his big green dragon. " "The man smells  off." Her tail 
flicked against the wind. Calen turned his head towards us briefly, but 
then returned his attention to flying. Had he hea rd that?  
Royal Dragoneer   76 
 "Really? " I asked her. " I thought  he smelled  good." "Besides,  he’s been nicer 
to me than anyone  outside  of Theron’s  family  since you hatched. " 
She swooped to catch a swallow too slow to avoid us. We flew 
with the poor creature in her talons for a few seconds before she 
released it. " I’m just practicing ". I felt her annoyance through our bond. 
"And if you don’t want my opinion,  don’t ask for it". 
"That was a good catch", I admitted. But I’d hurt her feelings and 
now she wanted to pretend I wasn’t ti ed to her back hundreds of feet 
in the air.  
She still wasn’t speaking to me the next time we landed. I 
unhooked myself from the harness and we headed in opposite 
directions.  
"What’s wrong?" Lewon fell in lockstep with me as we headed 
away from the river we  were still following.  
"Just a difference of opinion." I wasn’t about to tell him that we 
had argued about him. "But now she’s angry and not speaking to 
me." 
He laughed. "There isn’t a creature in the world as stubborn as a 
dragon. Give her time, she’ll co me around. But while we’re on the 
ground and she won’t be distracting you, I could teach you some 
woodcraft. That is unless you already know it."  
"No, it never came up while my mother was making sure I knew 
how to walk around with a board on my head." I mi med holding a 
flat object above me while keeping my head perfectly still, pacing a 
few steps. He laughed, and I pretended to drop my board and fell to 
the leafy ground after it. I grinned from below him and he plopped 
down beside me. "Apparently, it’s a vi tal skill in the court."  
I tried to pay attention as he instructed me in the best way to start 
a fire, but mostly I daydreamed about whether I could convince my 
parents to enter into talks with his. Or, well, whoever his guardian 
was. Hopefully, it was som ebody at least moderately important that 
could offer something to the King in return for my hand. It was silly 
girl stuff. I knew that. But I was a still a girl.  
77  Ash Rober ts 
 I decided that the Authand must be his guardian. That would be 
perfect. As leader of the Drago neers, Authand could just about name 
his terms. I’d seen him threaten to quit the service of the Elves if 
Father didn’t supply more food for the dragons. I had to be worth 
more than some food. Authand would have my father in a corner 
and my marriage to Lew on would be secured.  
I was so caught up in my ruminations that I didn’t hear him call 
my name. He clapped his hands next to my ear, breaking me free of 
my reverie. "Have you been paying attention at all?" He stood and 
held out a hand.  
"Huh?" I shook my hea d to clear the cobwebs. "Of course. I just 
got a little distracted towards the end." I took the hand, expecting 
him to pull me up, but he just stood there with his arm extended. 
Well, Father would at least insist that Lewon take lessons with my 
grace tutor . I pulled myself up, using his otherwise useless arm as 
support.  
He turned his back on me, heading to the waiting dragons. "Get in 
your harness. We should have left a while ago."  
I raced to catch up on him, taking care to avoid the exposed tree 
roots that  threatened to trip me on the ill -defined path. The gurgling 
water of the nearby stream reminded me that I hadn’t been able to 
relieve myself for hours. "How long till we get there?"  
"Still half a day’s flight. Why?"  
I couldn’t bring myself to say it. I su bconsciously looked down at 
my lap. He caught the motion and smirked. "You’ll have to go in the 
woods."  
"What? No, I can’t." My hands dropped to cover myself, although 
I was no more exposed than I had been a minute ago.  
"Suit yourself," he shrugged, leavin g me wondering why he was 
suddenly so rude. If that wasn’t bad enough, he and Calen took off, 
leaving me to finish tying myself in so Farean and I had to try to 
catch up. At our next landing, I was so annoyed, I stayed tied to 
Farean’s back the entire hour  on the ground.  
Royal Dragoneer   78 
 We continued east, as the sun sank towards the horizon, turning 
the sky a mixture of reds and oranges. Behind us, the sky dipped into 
violet and the dragon moon glowed silver as it began its nightly chase 
of the ball of fire. The sun disapp eared below the horizon and dots 
of fire became visible on the ground below, signaling inhabitants who 
eschewed the safety of greater numbers in towns and villages. Ahead 
of us, a ring of fires marked our destination, as the watch lit the night 
against the  Goblins that hunted here.  
We landed in a field where Colonel Authand was waiting. He held 
out his good hand to steady me as I climbed off Farean. "Welcome, 
Princess Kalia." He bowed, still clutching my hand.  
"No time. Bathroom." I ran off in a random dire ction, hoping one 
would be clearly labelled. Near the wall to my left, a lonely wooden 
stall bore the glyph for privacy. I gulped, as I headed towards it. A pit 
toilet was little better than going in the woods, but I was out of time 
and options.  
When came back out, the Colonel and Lewon were nowhere to be 
seen and neither were the dragons. " Farean?  "I called, beginning to 
panic.  
"Finally,  not pork"! She squealed in my head. Well, at least she was 
being taken care of. I wasn’t sure where I was supposed to go, but a 
red-haired girl approached me, holding out a hand. I was getting used 
to the manners of commoners and shook it. "I’m Kalia," I added.  
"I know," she said. "I’m Esgeril. Colonel Authand asked me to 
show you to the girls’ dorm. You’re to report to h im in the morning."  
She started walking and I followed, trying to examine the buildings 
in the dim light. The complex was huge, putting the castle to shame, 
but most of the space was empty, segregated into large grassy lots like 
the one we were crossing. L ow stone buildings dotted the landscape 
and the lake I’d spied from the air seemed to make up the Western 
border.  
We approached a complex made up of stables for the dragons. 
The scent of straw and sweat permeated the building, which 
alternated between covered and open -air pavilions. To either side sat 
79  Ash Rober ts 
 two story buildings with rows of empty windows. Esgeril led me to 
the closest one. "All of the female Dragoneers stay here," she 
explained. "The guys are on the other side. And there’s a watch tower 
over the stables," she pointed to a spindle in the center of the 
compound, "to make sure we don’t mix. Violators get latrine  duty."  
I made a face. "At least that was one thing I won’t have to worry 
about. Princesses don’t sneak in the middle of the night."  
She chuckled as she led me up to an empty room. "This one is 
yours. I’m down the hall on the right." She pointed to a door by the 
stairs. She promised to lead me to the Colonel’s office in the morning 
and, with that, I was alone for the first time since I’d stormed out of 
the hatching grounds a lifetime ago. I found my belongings sitting on 
a small table by a cot. It was bare and uncomfortable compared to 
my quarters in the castle, but a month of sleeping in Lunara’s bed 
made it more than tolerable.  

 
 
 
"This place is so fun. There  are so many dragons  here". Farean’s voice 
woke me up, insanely early, as usual. My window showed a view of 
inky purple over the lake, only the brightest morning stars still visible.  
"I knew you would  like it. But let me sleep. I don’t need to be up until dawn". 
I rolled over and pulled my head under the straw  stuffed pillow. I 
could feel her excitement and even caught the odd scent as she 
introduced herself to the rousing dragons. I pushed the sensations 
away and focused on returning to sleep, but a knock ended that futile 
hope. Still dressed in yesterday’s cl othes, I opened the door to find 
Esgeril waiting for me, her long braided hair still damp. With 
squinted eyes, I told her, "I thought you said morning. This is still 
night."  
She laughed. "We count dawn by the tower. The sun hit it half an 
hour ago."  
"Fine,  I’ll get ready." I grunted and shut the door in her face. I 
spied a bowl of water that had been set out for me the night before 
and did my best to wash the travel grime from my face and hands. I 
had no way of cleaning my hair, so I tied it up into a bun b efore 
changing into fresh clothes. Opening the door, I found Esgeril 
waiting in the same spot I’d left her. Girls in various stages of getting 
dressed chatted in the halls but when I stepped out, they all fell silent. 
I felt every pair of eyes on me as we left. I hoped they didn’t think 
they were intimidating me. Being stared at had pretty much been my 
life-long job description.  
Overhead, dragons flew in formations. "Why are they different?"  
"Huh?" Esgeril stopped.  
Royal Dragoneer   82 
 I pointed up. "The formations. Each color group is flying 
differently from the rest. Wouldn’t it look better if they all flew the 
same way?"  
She shook her head. "Formations are designed to take advantage 
of each dragon’s strength. Oranges are the biggest and strongest. And 
the most stubborn, just like their riders. Blues like your Farean are 
the fastest. They can be quick to temper as well." I recalled how 
willing Farean had been to eat half the nobility of Darneta at the 
hatching and nodded.  
Esgeril continued. "Greens are the most agile, sometimes  of 
morals as well as body. They are the best at getting in and out of a 
tight spot without getting caught." She paused a second and her chest 
swelled. "But Reds are the most steadfast creatures in all the land. 
Only they can fly steady enough for an arche r." 
"You have a Red dragon, I’m guessing?"  
"Yeah. Baran. He’s the best dragon ever. Every Dragoneer is 
going to say that, but in my case, it’s true. He understands me better 
than anyone."  
The Colonel’s office was small compared to the dragon sized 
building s of the rest of the camp. However, it did have an entire wall 
missing, covered over with a huge sheet of canvas. Esgeril saw me 
staring at it as we approached. "It rolls up to allow Korth to join in 
meetings." I tried to imagine a dragon sitting in on one  of my father’s 
conferences, stuffed into one of the hard wooden chairs and sipping 
tea from Mother’s delicate, human -made china.  
I giggled and Esgeril shot me a puzzled look. I shook my head and 
the door to the office opened at our arrival. An aide looked  at us and 
said, "Ah, Princess Kalia. Please, come in. The Colonel is expecting 
you." He turned his attention to Esgeril. "You can go to breakfast 
now. Somebody else will retrieve her when they are done."  
Esgeril gave the aide a nod and left. I followed hi m inside. He 
pointed to a bench in the antechamber and knocked on the door to 
the Colonel’s office. I sat as he went inside and spoke to the Elf in 
83  Ash Rober ts 
 charge. A moment later, he returned and waved me in. I stepped 
inside the office, and he shut the door behin d me.  
"You’re late." The Colonel didn’t wait for me to sit.  
I settled into the small wooden stool on the opposite side of his 
desk. "I’m sorry, sir. I didn’t know you used the tower to tell time 
here." I looked down, folding my hands in my lap as I balance d on 
the tripod structure.  
"No, I mean you’re two days late." He shook his head. "The other 
new Dragoneers arrived from the hatchery two days ago. That makes 
you two days behind learning the basics. You’ll have to make it up on 
your own time. Meanwhile, yo u will have chores like anybody else. 
Don’t expect any special treatment here. The King’s daughter isn’t 
any different from a shopkeeper’s son as far as Dragoneers are 
concerned."  
"With all due respect, sir." I straightened and looked him in the 
eye. "I do n’t plan to be here long. I came to find a new rider for 
Farean. Once that is settled, I’ll head back to the capital. I don’t 
know if I’ll be welcome at the castle, but I’ve made some friends 
there and can find work."  
"What are you talking about?" He title d his head, giving me a look 
as if I’d said something preposterous; like Goblins were my friends. 
Well, I had a dragon in my head and we made peace with my 
grandfather’s killers. Maybe that idea wasn’t too far out either.  
"I’m talking about the fact that I  know nothing about dragons, 
and Farean deserves better than that. She needs a rider that can turn 
her into the greatest blue the Dragoneers have ever seen. Surely, 
there was someone at the hatching that wasn’t chosen but who has 
been trained up for this. Of course, I’d like to meet them first, to see 
if they’re a good fit. Farean can’t just go to anyone."  
His face contorted into a frown and then a grimace as I finished 
my speech. Then for moment, we just sat, staring at each other.  
"What you are asking is impossible," he said.  
"Impossible? You mean there is nobody else available without a 
dragon? I might know someone already," I said, thinking of my maid.  
Royal Dragoneer   84 
 "I mean that the bond between you and your dragon is 
unbreakable. You cannot leave her because you’re s cared, or you 
want a more manageable pet. Frankly, even suggesting such a thing is 
the most sickening thing I’ve ever heard, and I was reading a report 
on Goblin atrocities before you arrived." He reached for a scroll on 
his desk and flung it at me.  
I duck ed, but the wooden spindle struck my arm. "Oww." I 
rubbed the red mark. I stood up, knocking over the stool. I bent to 
pick it up but stopped, kicking it away from me instead. "Why are 
you so angry with me?" I demanded, glaring at him.  
"Angry?" He laughed.  "This isn’t angry? This barely rates as 
annoyed on my scale. This has nothing to do with you, Princess." He 
spat the word, making it sound more like a slur than a title worthy of 
respect. "This is about your dragon. You are a pathetic excuse for an 
Elf an d Farean is stuck with you. Those are the facts. Every 
Dragoneer who has ever flown knows they aren’t worthy of their 
mount. It humbles the most confident man and makes him feel the 
fool to be owned by a beast so grand. I dare say it even makes a 
Princess doubt her useless, pompous upbringing. But that doesn’t 
mean you can quit. Quite the opposite."  
"I’m not trying to be falsely humble here, I assure you," I argued. 
"Look at me. Do you really think I have any business caring for one 
of our most precious mil itary assets? I don’t know what I’m doing."  
"No, you don’t. And that’s mostly your fault. You ran off like a 
spoiled little girl instead of staying at the hatching grounds where 
others were available to mentor you." He struck the desk with his 
hook. That s ection of the wood was filled with pock marks from 
similar attacks. He used the wedged in claw to pull himself up, 
returning the advantage of height to him. "I’m not saying you aren’t a 
terrible choice for a Dragoneer. You are. But if you leave that dragon , 
you will break her heart. And I don’t mean in a figurative, lovesick 
teenager way. The dragon bond is the strongest magic left in the 
world. If Farean believes, for one second, that you’ve truly rejected 
her, her giant reptilian heart will stop beating."  
85  Ash Rober ts 
 "No—I would never want that. Isn’t there another way?" I 
croaked, feeling my own heart in my throat.  
"There is not. And, so help me, if you do anything to mistreat that 
dragon, you’ll be spending a lifetime in the Dragon Caves. And don’t 
think your father  could overrule Dragoneer justice. The caves are 
prison to criminal Dragoneers and dragons from all seven kingdoms. 
Now get out of here before I decide to send you there just for being 
an idiot."  
I stood, openmouthed, trying to process what he’d told me. 
Authand picked up the ink blotter and threw it at my feet. I jumped, 
but the blue ink still splattered on the pigskin boots that Theron had 
given me. He looked for something else to throw, and I got the 
picture, racing for the door. I didn’t acknowledge the  aide, even as he 
held the outer door for me so I could escape his boss.  
Lewon sat on a rock wall a few feet from the office, whittling a 
stick with the dagger he’d used to kill the Goblin a few days ago. He 
saw me and stood. I cut away from him, wanting n othing more than 
to go back to my quarters and cry in privacy.  
He sidestepped and cut me off, so I ran straight into his body. 
Again. We were beginning to make a habit of that. Lewon wrapped 
his arms around me, gripping me tightly so that I couldn’t escape . 
"Leave me alone." I choked back a sob.  
"Hey, don’t worry about him. He’s like that with everybody."  
"I doubt that," I said, struggling against Lewon’s hold. My eyes 
were already wet and full of unshed tears, but I couldn’t hold them 
back much longer.  
"No, really. Did you see all the marks on his desk? He doesn’t 
need to stand up that way. He does it for affect to scare the newbies.  
I sniffed. "Are you sure?"  
"Yeah." He grinned at me, his dimples showing, and my heart 
lifted a little. Maybe this wouldn’t b e so bad —getting trained by 
Lewon. Deciding to give up Farean had been the hardest decision I 
had ever made. Harder than leaving home or breaking up with Etlin. 
And now the Colonel was saying I couldn’t —that it was impossible. 
Royal Dragoneer   86 
 Wasn’t that a good thing? I h ad built myself up for the inevitable 
heartbreak of it for so long; I didn’t even know how to feel anymore. 
Fear? Hope? Relief?  
Lewon felt me relax and loosened his arms some, adding, "But 
he’s still going to give you extra duty for missing an entire month  at 
the hatching grounds and two days of training. Make no mistake. 
When the Colonel says something, he means it. You’re going to be so 
sore."  
"Great! " How much extra work would make up for saying "the 
most sickening" thing the Colonel had ever heard?  
"Hey , don’t worry," Lewon said. "When you’re not in classes or 
doing extra chores, I could help train you to get you caught up."  
"Yeah, okay." I nodded. "Let’s do it."  
"You mean right now?" he laughed, surprised at my sudden 
determination. "How about this?  We have free time after dinner. 
There’s a beach on the north shore of the lake. Meet me there an 
hour after we eat, and I’ll get you up to speed."  
I smiled. Alone on a beach as the sun was setting? That was the 
best news I’d heard all month. "But dinner i s so far away," I moaned. 
"I haven’t even eaten breakfast yet."  
"Well, let’s take care of that," he said, guiding me to the mess hall. 
When we arrived, he waved me inside. "I’ve already eaten and need 
to get back to my classes. See you after lunch." I star ted inside. "Oh, 
and Kalia?"  
I stopped. "Yes?"  
"Get yourself a proper set of clothes. You won’t be able to fight in 
a dress. And you looked pretty ridiculous flying in it yesterday. Let’s 
just say there was a reason I wouldn’t let you fly ahead of me." He 
grinned and left. I stood at the door, red from the tips of my ears 
down to my toes. I entered the mess, taking a moment for my eyes to 
adjust to the dim light. Outside, three bells tolled, their tone rising 
then falling. The Dragoneers around the room sto pped talking at 
once, creating an odd quiet punctuated only by the chime.  
87  Ash Rober ts 
 Then, they rose and made for the exits. Several pushed past me, as 
if I wasn’t there. After being knocked repeatedly, I gave up expecting 
common decency from them and pressed myself against the wall.  
Seconds later, the room was empty save for a servant who pushed 
a cart, piling the abandoned plates and bowls as she passed each 
table. I made my way towards a door marked "Enter" in hopes of 
finding my breakfast.  
"What are you still doin g here, girl?" The servant pushed the cart 
in front of me, blocking my progress. "Capture the flag is about to 
start."  
"I don’t care about a game. I’m hungry."  
"Breakfast is over. Now go." She turned her back to me and 
resumed her task. I sighed and left. If I couldn’t get a meal, I might as 
well find out about this game everyone was so eager for.  
Out on the parade field, dragons and their riders assembled 
according to their colors. I finally found Esgeril among a group of 
other Red riders. Her fiery hair a midst a sea of red dragon hides 
hadn’t exactly made her conspicuous.  
The dragons eyed me. I came a little too close to one, and it 
emitted a low growl. I shrank away from it. "What’s going on?"  
Esgeril saw me and pulled me away from the throng. "What are 
you doing here? You and Farean should be with the Blues. Find the 
other Blue riders and talk to Selkerdrim. He’ll explain the rules to 
you. Now go. The others think you’re here spying for your team." 
She gave me a small push and disappeared back into the cr owd.  
The Blues were easy to find. Each of the four Colors occupied a 
different quadrant of the field and kept well apart from each other. 
Farean was already there, pacing back and forth, bragging about her 
one short visit to the castle while the others ign ored her and went 
about their business.  
She saw me and perked up. " Kalia.  You’re  here! Are we going to play 
too?" 
"It looks that way. But I need to find Selkerdrim."  
Royal Dragoneer   88 
 "Someone looking for me?" The crowd parted, revealing a tall boy 
wearing a number three pi nned to his shirt. Tufts of dark brown hair 
stuck out from under a leather helmet. Selkerdrim flashed a smile as 
he approached. He looked near my age, and held himself in a manner 
that commanded respect. I felt a little self -conscious standing near 
him. He  had the bearing Father had tried to teach me, but I had been 
as bad at it as Mother’s lady -like grace.  
"Oh, you." His smile faded. He pointed to a group in mismatched 
gear looking a little lost. "Go over with the other first years. I’ll be 
there in a minu te. I don’t want to have to explain the rules more than 
once."Most of the other first year Dragoneers were my age, but there 
were a few older. They all quieted when I approached. "Hi." I waved.  
In return, they just stared. It was a tad rude, but I understo od that 
commoners had little chance to learn proper manners.  
Two riders broke into a fight, grappling each other to the ground. 
I stopped, unsure if I should break it up or if I even could. Before I 
could make up my mind, one of the boys pinned the other t o the 
ground. He stood above him for a second, then reached down and 
pulled him back to his feet.  
Selkerdrim approached our group with a golden banner tucked 
under his arm. "This is our flag." He unrolled it to reveal a vividly 
embroidered blue dragon span ning the length. "The object of 
Capture the Flag is to protect our flag and capture one belonging to 
the enemy. If another dragon catches you, they get ten points. Catch 
a flag and bring it back here for fifty points. The first team to a 
hundred wins. You lot will guard the flag. When the horn blows, 
follow me. Saddle up."  
The others climbed on top of their beasts and hooked into their 
harnesses. Mine was still in my room. Of course, Selkerdrim noticed 
me just standing there. "You don’t get a special invita tion. I expect 
my orders to be followed."  
"I didn’t bring my harness." I explained. "No one told me —" 
"You’re absolutely useless." From his dragon, Selkerdrim towered 
over me. "Look, the game is about to start. When it does, run to the 
89  Ash Rober ts 
 trees and hide. You can’t play without a harness." The horn blew. 
Selkerdrim’s dragon lifted off into the sky, soon followed by the 
other Blue dragons. The Reds, Greens, and Oranges rose in their 
respective sections of the field. Soon, Farean and I were the only 
ones left.  
I sighed. "Well, let’s go have a seat and wait for this to be over."  
We sat under the shade of an oak and watched the other dragons 
and riders flit across the sky. Authand and another instructor, " Aran’s  
rider", Farean provided somewhat helpfully, announced the game.  
The Orange dragons seemed to focus on defense. They made no 
attempt to hide their flag, but a wall of the giant beasts surrounded it. 
The younger ones, nearly double the size of an adult Blue, worked on 
points.  
A Green, undoubtedly thinking itsel f sneaky, dove from an 
impossibly high height towards the Orange flag. Its speed increased 
as it got closer to the ground. Wings tucked in, the approach was 
almost silent. If I had been facing the other direction, I would have 
never known it was coming. I held my breath. Would the green 
dragon be able to stop in time?  
I couldn’t hear the approaching dragon, but apparently other 
dragons could. Just as the Green was about to break through the 
circle, one of the Oranges flicked its tail at the speeding intrude r. The 
strike was quick and precise. Neither dragon nor rider even looked, 
but the blow found its mark. The Green was thrown off course, 
tumbling twice before righting itself mere feet from the ground.  
"Ten points for Orange." Authand’s voice boomed throug h a 
speaking horn.  
If the gambit had succeeded, Green would have won the game. 
For now, they maintained the lead, but the Blues weren’t far behind. 
"Ten points for Green," Authand reported on some unseen part of 
the field. That put them up to ninety. The m atch was pretty much a 
wrap at this point. One more play, and it would be theirs. At only 
sixty points, the Blues didn’t have much chance.  
Royal Dragoneer   90 
 Cheering erupted from Elves with dragon roars joining the chorus. 
"Kalia,  look", Farean practically shouted through o ur mental 
connection. " Selkerdrim  has the Red flag. We’re  going to win." 
But it wasn’t a forgone conclusion just yet. A dozen Reds, three 
Greens, and even a small Orange chased close behind. Perhaps 
Selkerdrim’s only chance lie in the fact that the other t eams were 
more interested in fighting each other for position than in actually 
catching up to him. The Blue and his rider came in over the lake, 
wind buffeting them and slowing their superior speed. The Greens 
rode the currents in loops and twirls, taking every advantage to close 
the gap. The Reds sliced through the wind as if it weren’t there. Even 
the Orange dragon barreled through, using mass and sheer force of 
will to beat the maelstrom.  
"Psst."  
Whoever wanted me could wait. I leaned forward at the very  edge 
of my stump to watch.  
"Psst."  
I turned and found Lewon ducked behind a tree. He waved for me 
to join him. I cast a glance back towards the action and moved his 
direction. "But I want to watch this," I complained.  
"You want to watch the game, or do yo u want to win it?" He 
pointed. Just beyond where he stood in a small clearing, the green 
flag hung from a tree branch. And no one was guarding it.  
"Why show me?" I asked confused. "Don’t you want to win?"  
Lewon shrugged. "Green wins this thing all the time . If you score 
the winning points, you’ll be a hero. It will go a long way towards the 
Dragoneers accepting you."  
I considered it. Authand already hated me, and no one else was 
likely to cut me any slack. And it was only a silly game. Besides, I 
hadn’t hea rd any rules against one team helping another. "Thank 
you," I whispered to Lewon, hurrying towards the flag before he 
changed his mind. When I got to it, I wrapped my fingers around the 
silk cloth and pulled. It spilled into my arms, and I raced back to 
Farean. "We don’t have a harness, so we’ll have to walk. But if we 
91  Ash Rober ts 
 hurry, we can beat Selkerdrim back to the field." I climbed on her 
back, thinking it would be faster. And if I did fall off it was only a 
few feet to the ground.  
Farean lumbered through the t rees out onto the edge of the field. 
As soon as we broke into the open, half the Green team was upon us 
like they’d been waiting there.  
"Run," I shouted.  
Farean moved as quickly as she could, but she was no land 
mammal. Ahead, Selkerdrim had broken free of  his pursuers. He was 
going to beat me there after all.  
I was so focused on those behind me; I didn’t notice the shadow 
above me. Green talons thrust down, grabbing the flag in my arms. I 
gripped the fabric tighter, but the Green rose into the air, pulling  me 
off Farean. I screamed and let go, bouncing off Farean’s back and 
rolling to the ground.  
"Ten points for Green," Authand announced. "Green wins the 
game!" The Green bearing the flag he’d stolen from me took a 
victory lap over the field. One by one, the  other Greens joined him.  
I slowly pushed myself up from the ground, just as Selkerdrim 
landed in the marked out square little more than twenty yards in front 
of me. He would have won the game for us if I hadn’t botched it. 
Even from the distance, I could see his scowl as he dismounted.  
"Why did you do that?" he yelled at me "I told you to stay under 
cover and keep out of trouble."  
"I found their flag. There was nobody there. I thought I could 
win." I didn’t want to reveal Lewon’s role in my play and get him in 
trouble with his teammates.  
"If there’s nobody protecting a flag, it’s a trap," Selkerdrim spat. 
"They were waiting for you to take it."  
I hung my head. "I’m sorry."  
"Get out of here before the other Blues descend," he barked. 
"This would have been our first win against Green in two years, and 
you ruined it." He stormed off, leaving me standing there like an 
Royal Dragoneer   92 
 idiot. Which maybe I was. Had Lewon set me up? I didn’t want to 
believe that, but it sure looked like he had.  
"I told you", Farean huffed.  
"He f ooled you, too," I said before storming off.  
 
 
 
I took the long way back to the barracks and most of the other 
Dragoneers beat me there. A group of second year girls chatted in 
the courtyard overlooking the drago n stables. As I approached, their 
conversation stopped.  
"Thanks for your play," a girl with a tattoo of a green dragon on 
her forearm said. "The Greens would have needed an entire minute 
to win without you." The others laughed at her taunt. First the 
possi ble betrayal by Lewon, and now this? My day just kept getting 
better and better. Still, it would only make things worse if I started a 
fight.  
I smiled, calling forth every ounce of grace tutoring my mother 
had forced on me. "Maybe next time, I can score po ints for my own 
team."  
They just stared at me. Obviously, I wasn’t going to impress them 
with my grace. But there were other ways to win people.  
"Anyone want to trade clothes?" I asked, pointing down at my 
now-dusty dress. "It seems I brought the wrong tru nk and don’t have 
any riding attire. So, I propose a swap. My dress for any of the outfits 
you have on right now. I assure you, my dresses are custom made 
with the most expensive fabrics and quite valuable."  
"Why would we want a bunch of frilly stuff like that?" One of 
them asked. "We ain’t got no use for it here." The other girls tittered.  
"Don’t you ever get dressed up?" I asked. "Perhaps there’s a 
Dragoneer dance, or some rider you’d liked to impress." This 
conversation wasn’t going at all how I had hope d it would.  
"You don’t impress a rider with a dress," another girl scoffed.  
Royal Dragoneer   94 
 "And there ain’t no dance ‘cept the one in the sky," another girl 
said, and they all laughed like she’d told a lewd joke. " Oh, wait a 
minute.  Dragons  mate in the sky." 
One of the g irls was a Dark Elf. I’d heard they had limited 
opportunities because of the prejudice against them, though there 
was also an old wives tale that if you touched one it was good luck. I 
turned to her. "How about you?" I squinted at the name sewn onto a 
patch over her right breast. "Lorra? If you don’t want the dress to 
wear, you could get a pretty penny for it at the market, especially if 
you said it was from the banished Princess herself. I’m sure you 
could use the money."  
She came towards me. Like the othe r riders, she was strongly built 
and broad, her muscles rippling under her midnight skin. Two of her 
friends approached too, flanking her. The one in Green, Florian, 
towered over the others, taller than most men, with the faintest hit of 
green to her compl etion. She had to be part orc. I’d heard such 
things happened in the provinces, but it was shocking to see.  
Lorra inched closer. "What? Just because of the color of my skin, 
you think I’m poor? Not all stereotypes are true, Princess." She made 
my title sou nd like a slur. "But I guess one is. The royal family is 
stuck up and doesn’t care about the common people. Like father, like 
daughter."  
"Don’t you talk about my father." I launched myself at her, but 
Florian grabbed me and lifted me cleanly off the ground . "Let me 
go." I squirmed against her grip, legs swinging uselessly in the air.  
"With pleasure, Your Highness." With that final word, she 
launched me into the air.  
I hit the ground hard and rolled twice before a rock jammed into 
my shoulder, stopping me ab ruptly. Pain throbbed, radiating down 
my arm. The girls continued to laugh while I lay there, trying to catch 
my breath.  
I could feel Farean’s growl in my soul. " I’m okay", I told her.  
"No, you’re  hurt. I will hurt them." 
95  Ash Rober ts 
 I fought the urge to shake my head. She couldn’t see me anyway. 
"Some battles  I have to fight on my own". 
"But-" 
"No, trust me, dear". I stood slowly. My pink gown now bore a gash 
and the fabric around the split was red from my bleeding shoulder.  
Just moving hurt, but I wouldn’t give t hem the satisfaction of 
seeing it. I pushed through the crowd to the barracks door, yanking it 
open, which rewarded me with a fresh wave of pain. I clenched my 
teeth and let the door slam behind me. I braced against the wall for a 
moment before trudging up  the stairs to my room. I fished out my 
makeshift harness, not bothering to change. The opposite stairwell 
led directly to the stables.  
I found Farean resting on some sun -warmed rocks. " I like this place, 
but you don’t. "Her lips pulled back revealing her fanged teeth, an 
expression I’d come to learn was the dragon’s version of a frown.  
"I’m fine," I lied as I patted her snout. Her presence calmed me, 
and my shoulder hurt less already. I held up the harness. "We’re 
going to go for a little flight. It seems I need to go shopping."  
"Ooh, will you get me something? " She lowered her head to let me slide 
the neck rope over it and down onto her chest.  
"Sure. I’ll see if I can find you a nice harness. Something flashy to 
make the other dragons jealous." The image o f a gem -encrusted 
breast plate flashed through my mind, and she nodded approvingly. I 
inspected my progress with the harness and pulled it off before 
rotating it and trying again. Hopefully, the new harness would be 
easier to put on.  
Satisfied, at last, th at I had it on her correctly, I climbed on and 
tied myself in. Then, we leapt into the air and flew out over the lake.  
"Where  are we going? " she asked.  
I bit my lip. " Hmm,  it looks like there is some smoke  on the horizon  to the 
north.  Maybe  that’s a village." 
She banked, and we started towards the grey wisps in the distance. 
I looked down as we flew over the camp. Below, Authand waved his 
hook in the air, shouting something that was lost on the wind. I 
Royal Dragoneer   96 
 waved back as we sped away over the vast expanse of for est that 
covered so much of the realm outside the capital.  
We settled into a languid pace, rising and falling as Farean caught 
thermal currents. I leaned into the ridge along her back, relaxing for 
the first time in days. There was nothing like a good fly to calm me. 
Farean loved to fly, and, despite my initial surprise at the revelation, I 
loved flying with her. Our happiness and contentment fed off each 
other until we were almost in a state of euphoria. I wished we could 
stay in the air forever, away from  court politics and peasant bullies.  
"We have company ", Farean said.  
"Where? " I twisted my head, looking for them.  
"Behind  us. A couple  miles back, but they’re  gaining  on us". The tiny red 
dot could have been anything, but I trusted Farean’s judgement. 
Florian must have so little to do that she would chase after me just to 
continue bullying me.  
"Let’s see if we can lose them in the forest,  "I suggested. As soon as the 
words formed in my mind, she dove below the treetops. Branches 
whipped past us, be she twi sted her body left and right, avoiding any 
collisions. We fell below the upper canopy and leveled out. There 
was no trail, and Farean had to constantly dodge the trunks jutting 
from the ground. But that would make it easier to lose our pursuers.  
A crashing  sound behind us announced they had dropped below 
the trees as well. I leaned forward and urged Farean to go faster. The 
forest blurred around us as she rose above one branch and below the 
next.  
"Stop!" a feminine voice cried behind us, making me look back . It 
wasn’t Florian at least, but I couldn’t think of any good reason for 
someone to be following me through the woods. I couldn’t see 
anyone, and Farean just kept going.  
I turned forward again and saw a giant oak looming ahead of us.  
"Watch  out!" I cried,  but Farean pumped her wings harder, ducking 
a smaller elm in our way. Moments from impact with the oak, she 
spread her wings and caught one of its branches with her rear legs.  
97  Ash Rober ts 
 Momentum carried us forward as her talons shredded the bark 
underneath. We rota ted around the bough and she let go. She 
pumped her wings to steady herself out as we flew in a completely 
different direction than before.  
I listened again, but the noise of those chasing us was receding.  
"That was amazing,  "I praised Farean,"  "my chest heaving with 
exhilaration.  
She replied in mumbled thanks, her attention elsewhere.  
I followed the direction of her head as she glanced up to avoid yet 
another obstacle and then back to the ground where a small grey 
rabbit ran through the underbrush.  
It duc ked into some heather, but Farean skimmed her claw 
through the plant. The rabbit bolted from its hiding spot and back 
into sight. Farean plucked it from the ground and rose back up to the 
mid-story of the forest, making it more difficult for someone to spo t 
us. Then she popped the rabbit into her mouth and swallowed it 
whole. I could feel her neck muscles work the meal down her gullet 
towards her stomach.  
I assumed her little snack meant we weren’t being chased 
anymore. She had heard them a mile away before . She would let me 
know if she heard them again.  
Farean slowed her pace and turned towards a creek, landing on the 
mossy bank gently. As she lapped at the water, and I felt the coolness 
on my own throat, which was nice because I didn’t really want to 
clamb er out of my harness for a drink.  
Farean finished drinking and we took off, staying beneath the tree 
cover, but that made it almost impossible to know which direction 
we were going. We’d long ago lost the smoke of the village or any 
other familiar landmark . I was afraid we were lost.  
"We are still heading  north, " Farean said, matter -of-factly. " I can sense 
directions.  It’s a dragon  thing." 
"So, you’re  like a homing  pigeon? " I asked, laughing.  
"No," she frowned inside my head. " I’m the thing that eats homing  
pigeons. " 
Royal Dragoneer   98 
 "Even so", I thought at her. " Let’s go back above the trees and get our 
bearings. " 
She rose and swerved around another tree. Her pace was more 
languid now. Her snack affected her more than I would have liked. 
As we crested, I saw that we were in deed still headed towards the 
smoke, which was closer now. There was no trace of the dragon that 
had been after us, just a lone hawk circling overhead.  
Clear of any threat, we rose higher and continued towards the gray 
column in the sky. The hawk above us screeched and dove at us. The 
sound was wrong, however, and I realized with a start it was the red 
dragon from before.  
Farean dipped back below the trees, but it was too late. Silver 
talons grabbed her tail, yanking us upward.  
Farean screamed in pain, and I joined her, crying out, as she 
thrashed and tried to free herself from the dragon’s grip. Thankfully, 
it was a small beast, not much larger or older than Farean, who 
grabbed a tree limb and hung on for dear life.  
The other dragon yanked, and we screamed once again as scales 
slaked off Farean’s tail.  
Without warning, the red let go, and we dropped, putting Farean’s 
full weight on the branch. The tree stood no chance against the full 
weight of a quarter -ton animal. The wood cracked and splintered 
before fal ling. As we flailed about, Farean got her wing caught under 
her foreleg. I reached for the joint, but it was too far from the 
harness. I untied the first rope holding me in, but Farean’s tumbling 
flipped us upside down.  
She cried in earnest now. Even if I could get the wing free, she 
couldn’t fly upside down. And I couldn’t get out of the harness with 
only gravity between me and the ground. The fall alone could be 
lethal, and even if I survived it, Farean might come crashing down on 
top of me.  
If that wasn’ t bad enough, the red came diving towards us, the way 
clear now that we’d bashed the forest apart.  
99  Ash Rober ts 
 As its shadow eclipsed us, all I could think was, " I’m sorry Farean.  I 
wish I’d been a better rider for you. " 
"I will be with you forever,  Kalia.  "She thoug ht back" . In death as in life". 

 
 
 
Just as my life flashed before my eyes, a young Elf leapt from the 
red dragon hovering over us. Rope uncoiled above her, and she 
landed with a thump onto Farean’s belly.  
It took every ounce of my willpower to turn and look at her, as 
Farean’s panic pounded through my chest.  
Esgeril hooked her legs around Farean’s neck. She leaned down 
but pulled back just before the whole world shuddered and blurred 
before a crack announced a nother tree limb yielding to our weight.  
Esgeril leaned down again, carefully, slowly, and pulled on 
Farean’s forelimb.  
Farean, panicked, instinctually fighting against her.  
"Tell her to relax," Esgeril said to me.  
"But we’re going to die," I answered.  
"Not if you do what I tell you. Now relax."  
I took a deep breath and then another. " Farean ", "let her help you". I 
sent to her, with calming vibes. " It’s our only hope." 
And, little by little, Farean relaxed the tension in her leg.  
Esgeril gave it another pul l and freed Farean’s wing. Before we 
had a chance to react, Esgeril gave a tug on her rope and rose from 
Farean. I looked up in time to see her dragon land on a branch clear 
of our destruction.  
Still looking up, my body lurched as Farean rolled and spread her 
wings to slow our descent. She pumped furiously and when we 
reached the next branch, she was able to grab hold of it. We landed 
hard against it but didn’t fall.  
Royal Dragoneer   102 
 I held my breath as my heartbeat slowed. Exhaling, I looked 
down. There was nothing below u s but ground. A scant twenty feet 
of air separated us from what would have been our last "landing." 
Farean trembled as that realization struck home for her as well.  
Esgeril and her dragon swept past us and landed on the ground a 
few feet away.  
Unwilling to  give up the grip that had been so hard won, Farean 
climbed down the trunk backwards like a treed cat. The going was 
slow, but neither of us wanted to be airborne just yet.  
Esgeril stood next to her red dragon, tapping her foot with arms 
crossed as we reac hed the ground.  
Once down, Farean collapsed onto the leafy forest floor, pressing 
herself to it like it was her best friend. I couldn’t blame her. I nearly 
tore the ropes off my harness in an attempt to dismount and kiss the 
ground myself.  
The final rope u ntied, I slid off her back in a maneuver that would 
have left my mother cringing if she’d witnessed it. I faked a stumble 
and sat next to my dragon digging my fingers into the soil. I looked 
up and caught Esgeril shaking her head.  
"Why were you chasing us? " I demanded, angry and full of 
needless adrenaline now that I wasn’t going to die. "You nearly killed 
us?" 
She flinched at my verbal assault, her eyes wide. "Nearly killed 
you? I saved your lives."  
Behind us, the dragons growled. " Let me deal with this, "I told 
Farean. "And thank you for that," I shouted at Esgeril. "But we 
wouldn’t have needed saving if you hadn’t attacked us."  
"If you hadn’t run away, we wouldn’t have had to chase you."  
"I had quite enough teasing for one day, thank you very much. I 
didn’t need you following me to town and harassing me more."  
"Harass? What are you talking about? Colonel Authand sent me 
after you because you’re not allowed to leave camp without 
permission."  
103  Ash Rober ts 
 "Well, I was going to town to get gear," I said, my anger waning a  
little. "Everybody keeps telling me as Dragoneer can’t wear dresses, 
but that’s all I have." I looked down at my sun dress, which was 
ripped in a dozen different spots now, not just the tear on the 
shoulder. Underneath, my skin was covered in scratches. B lood 
stained the torn fabric, but I couldn’t find the source on my body.  
Esgeril grinned at my sorry state. At first, she covered her mouth 
to hide the smile, but then her lips pursed, and her face contorted. 
Finally, she could hold it no longer and erupted into a full -on 
chuckle.  
"What’s so funny," I demanded.  
She ignored me as she dropped to her knees and beat the ground 
with her fists.  
"Stop it." I protested, but somehow found myself grinning too.  
She tried to compose herself but broke into another  fit of snorting 
laughter. Finally, she got it under control as she huffed for breath. 
"You were going the wrong direction," she said.  
"How was I supposed to know that. I don’t even know why I’m 
here. Everything I do is wrong."  
Her smile waned. "You’re new . And you don’t know much. That’s 
true. But you definitely belong here. That was some of the best flying 
I’ve ever seen."  
"Really? It was mostly Farean. And I’m sure it wasn’t anything 
special."  
Esgeril put a hand on my shoulder. "Both of my parents are 
Dragoneers; dragons practically raised me. I’ve never seen anyone 
maneuver through the woods like that. You should try out for the 
Dragon Race."  
The Dragon Race only happened once per century, and the 
winners’ species had bragging rights until the next one. Some had 
wanted the upcoming event cancelled due to the Goblin wars. The 
Nightbloods, the current trophy holders, had been the most vocal in 
favor of that plan. But my father had brokered a deal. In two years, 
the winner would lead the combined dragon armi es against the 
Royal Dragoneer   104 
 Goblins. But the idea of me and Farean winning was ridiculous. This 
was probably just another cruel joke Dragoneers pulled on unwanted 
first-years.  
"There’s no way I could win," I told Esgeril. "I probably wouldn’t 
even place in the qualifyi ng Run. People have spent their entire lives 
training for the Race."  
"They have." She nodded. "But half of them don’t show the skill 
you just demonstrated without any training at all. But it doesn’t 
matter to me if you enter." She shrugged. "If we don’t ge t you back, 
you’ll never be a Dragoneers anyway. If we hurry, there might still be 
time to go shopping today."  
She pulled herself onto her dragon’s back in a single motion and 
hooked herself into the harness. In a blink, they were airborne, rising 
up throu gh the hole in the forest canopy we’d made.  
Farean and I looked at each other. Neither of us was eager to fly 
again so soon, but we really didn’t have a choice. I trembled slightly 
as I mounted her and retied the knots on my makeshift harness. 
Farean lifte d off and we rose above the trees, taking a much more 
leisurely pace than Esgeril. They flew in meandering circles as they 
waited for us. Once we reached their altitude, they too off toward 
camp.  
We followed, but Farean stayed well behind. She wasn’t about  to 
let another dragon get within talon’s reach of her in the air again.  
The sun reached its zenith as we approached the camp. My 
stomach rumbled, reminding me that I hadn’t eaten since yesterday. 
After landing, I cast a glance towards the dining hall, but  Esgeril 
shook her head and took off towards the Colonel’s office. I could 
smell the scent of freshly baked bread wafting from the cafeteria, but 
I turned my back on it and followed after her.  
Being a dragon unconcerned by human rules and protocols, 
Farean  wandered towards where sides of beef were being handed out 
to dragons for their noon meal. I’d do anything to trade places with 
her right now.  
105  Ash Rober ts 
 The aide stood at the open door to the Colonel’s office, and he 
waved us in. We were obviously expected, but not  in a good way. I 
didn’t even have a chance for my eyes to adjust to the dim indoors 
before Colonel shouted, "Get in here right now! You, too. Esgeril."  
Her eyes grew large at being included, but she didn’t hesitate to 
follow me into the dragon’s den.  
The Colonel thumped his hook against his desk, chips of wood 
flying in various directions. "Kalia, maybe you could do whatever you 
pleased at the castle, but in the Dragoneers, we have rules that must 
be followed. You can’t run off without permission."  
"I didn ’t know."  
"That’s right, you didn’t. Because you haven’t bothered to learn 
the first thing about your duties. Starting tomorrow, you have no free 
time. When others are off relaxing, you’ll be reporting to Flatch for 
additional lessons. You will do this eve ry day until you’ve caught up 
with the rest of your hatching group."  
"Fine," I said. "But I need riding clothes. Apparently, my dresses 
aren’t quite sturdy enough."  
He looked over my tattered dress.  
I’d forgotten how much skin was exposed. I hunched my 
shoulders forward to make myself smaller.  
He shook his head. "No, they aren’t. But you must understand 
that Goblins have been spotted in this area, and the rules are there 
for your safety. You might feel invincible in the air, but greyskin are 
stealthy in the  wood. If you land your beast for a drink, you’re likely 
to find a blade coming out your chest." He raised his hook and 
waved it in front of me. "I lost my hand to Goblin’s defending your 
grandfather’s land because I got too cocky. And you know what 
happen ed to him. Don’t forget that. Never let your guard down."  
I gulped. No, I wouldn’t forget seeing my grandpa die. But I had 
forgotten the dangers that lurked, even after what had happened to 
Lewon and me on the way to Theron’s farm. I guess I had been so 
pissed off about the scrape with Florian and her gang, that I’d lost 
my head.  
Royal Dragoneer   106 
 "So, I have a quandary." The Colonel said. "You will be 
disciplined, but you also need riding gear before you can perform 
your punishment." He sat back down, a look of contemplation on his 
face. "You haven’t had a good start with the other girls, have you?" 
He asked.  
I shook my head, not meeting his gaze. I’d been taught grace and 
poise, but that didn’t seem to matter for anything out here. Instead, it 
had brought me sco rn and ridicule.  
He mulled the dilemma over, scratching at his chin with the blunt 
edge of his hook. Then, he seemed to finally remember that Esgeril 
was in the room with us. "Esgeril, you will accompany her to get 
gear, helping her discern what she needs.  And then you, Kalia," He 
turned back to me, "will spend tomorrow working in the stables for 
the stunt you pulled today."  
Esgeril gave me a sympathetic glance. Stable duty was bad. I had 
helped Theron clean out the pig sties a few times, and they were 
small animals, but it had been back -breaking work. And of course, I’d 
cleaned up after Farean, but she was petite for a dragon. But Esgeril 
didn’t argue about her duty, and neither did I. We both just nodded, 
and I gave out a soft, "Yes, sir."  
The Colonel was already examining a scroll on his desk. Without 
looking up he barked, "Dismissed!"  
We didn’t need to the told twice and quickly fled the office.  
"The town with shops is south of here," Esgeril said, heading for 
the stables. "We’d better head out before he changes his mind."  
I was starving, but maybe there would a chance to eat in town. At 
the stable, I had to pull Farean away from her meal, hoping she 
hadn’t eaten too much to affect her flying. She was grumpy about 
leaving again, and I couldn’t blame her. I  tied my rope harness 
together, and we were back in the air.  
Riders can’t really chat when they flew. The distance, wind, and 
velocity made it almost impossible to converse. That’s why our mind -
speak with our dragons was so useful. So, Esgeril and I rode i n 
silence for an hour before smoke on the horizon announced the 
107  Ash Rober ts 
 presence of a settlement. My stomach gurgled anew, and Farean 
picked up her pace, feeling my hunger. We landed at a wide pavilion 
made of black rocks. After we dismounted, the two dragons quic kly 
curled up upon the stones and I could feel Farean slip into a slumber. 
A path led into the village proper, and Esgeril and I started down it. I 
recited a list of what I thought I might need, and she nodded without 
speaking, picking up her pace. Despite  her being a full head shorter 
than me, I had to jog to keep up.  
Esgeril led me down the dirt street to the tradesmen’s section of 
town. I slowed at each food stall until she had mercy on me. She 
reached into a pouch and handed me some bread and a pinch of  
stimleaf. "Rule number one of being a Dragoneer. Always pack a 
snack, because you never know when your next meal will be. Now 
hurry and eat this before we go inside."  
I didn’t have to be told twice and wolfed it down, hardly bothering 
to chew.  
A bell on t he door gave a quiet ring as we entered a small shop. A 
short woman dressed in a leather vest over a faded blue dress popped 
her head out from behind a curtain. She saw Esgeril and smiled. 
"Dear, how have you been? Look at you, you’re getting so tall. I’m 
going to have to put a stack of rocks on your head." She brought 
Esgeril into a fierce hug, her head barely above that of the young 
Dragoneer.  
"Aunt Tirada, this is Princess Kalia." Esgeril extracted herself 
from the older woman’s grasp.  
Tirada stopped bre athing a moment. Her eyes widened before 
springing into action, dropping to a knee so fast that she nearly took 
her niece down with her.  
I blushed for the millionth time today. "Please, stand up. Besides, 
I’m not even a princess anymore." I frowned.  
She ro se and wrapped her arms around me. "I’d heard rumors that 
there was an upheaval in the capital with dragons involved, but didn’t 
know they involved you, my child."  
I stiffened. "I’m not a child," my voice cracked.  
Royal Dragoneer   108 
 She pulled away from me, staring into my e yes. "No, of course 
not. You are a beautiful young woman and now a Dragoneer to boot. 
Once you adjust to the changes in your life, there will be nothing to 
stop you." She glanced over my torn dress. Not for the first time 
today, I wished I’d had a chance t o change before we left. "Now I’m 
guessing you came for some proper riding gear?"  
I nodded, and she whirled into motion. She plucked a tape 
measure from nowhere and took measurements which she chalked 
onto a slate she kept tucked in her apron pocket. Withi n a minute she 
had measured every inch of me as thoroughly as the Royal Taylor did 
in an hour.  
"You’re in luck," she said, smiling. "You’re almost an exact match 
for riding gear I was already working on. I can adjust it and have it 
ready this afternoon. I’ ll just make a new set for the customer it was 
intended for."  
"I couldn’t –" I started, but she put a hand up and shushed me.  
"Tut-tut," she said. "She won’t be back until next week anyway. 
That gives me plenty of time. Do you need a harness?"  
I looked at the rope marks on my arms and my ankles and 
nodded.  
"Farean is about ten hands tall and maybe five wide," Esgeril said. 
"But she’s only as old as Baran. My guess is she will be near twice 
that by the time she is full -grown."  
Tirada nodded and disappeared i nto the back. She returned with a 
heavy looking saddle with straps longer than my arm that terminated 
in steel buckles. She handed it to me, and I nearly threw it in the air, 
surprised by how light it was. My hand slid over the saddle. Like the 
harness its elf, it weighed next to nothing.  
She noticed my puzzlement and explained, "Aluminte. It’s difficult 
to get but extremely light."  
My hand instinctively went for my purse. I had a fair amount, 
probably more than anyone else at the training camp. But it would n’t 
last forever, and I didn’t think I would ever see another dime from 
my parents.  
109  Ash Rober ts 
 "I might need something a little more basic," I admitted.  
"No, you misunderstand," Tirada said. "This is a gift. And I’m so 
glad to see Esgeril has made a friend. She’s been so withdrawn since 
her father died."  
Esgeril glared at her aunt. "I have not. I’ve just been busy. 
Speaking of which, Kalia needs to see if that harness fits, and you 
have a suit of leathers to finish." She tugged at my arm and pulled me 
towards the d oor. 
"I—well, thank you." I stammered. "Still, I must pay you 
something." But Esgeril had already pulled me out to the street.  
"You can argue with her about payment when we come back for 
the riding leathers," she said. "But I can already tell you, you’ll l ose."  
I followed her, shifting the saddle to a two -handed grip as I 
struggled to keep up with her half -run towards the dragon stones. 
She turned a corner, and I called, "Wait up."  
Around the building, she stood waiting, impatiently tapping her 
foot. 
"Hey, what’s the rush?" I asked. "We can’t leave until the leathers 
are done anyway, and your aunt was really nice."  
"I know," she said, rolling her eyes. "My entire family is painfully 
nice."  
"And that bothers you?" I asked, incredulous.  
"Listen," she said, sto pping and whirling toward me. "I love my 
family, okay, but they always look on the bright side. They always 
have a smile for everyone. Or a kind word or deed. And things aren’t 
always rainbows and happiness. Sometimes things suck, and they just 
don’t get t hat." 
"Okay," I said, taken back by her vehemence. "So, you’re sad, and 
they don’t get that?" I took a stab at her problem with her overly -
cheerful family.  
"Exactly!" she threw up her arms in frustration. "My father died 
nine months ago, and I’m supposed t o be over it? I’m supposed to 
put on a happy face and smile for the family, so they won’t worry 
about me. I don’t know how they can just move on like he never 
Royal Dragoneer   110 
 existed. It’s not right. Who will remember him if we don’t? It’s like 
they’re erasing his existen ce with their smiles and pat phrases. And 
every time I see them, they expect me to erase him too." She 
stopped, tears glistening in her eyes, glancing around and realizing we 
were still on the street, though no one was really paying attention to 
us. 
"I saw  my grandpa die when I was five." I said, feeling her pain. 
"No one can ever erase that. How did your father die?"  
"It was a Goblin ambush," Esgeril said. "My parents were riding 
on a routine patrol when a net caught mom’s dragon and dad caught 
a spear try ing to cut them loose." I could see her knuckles turning 
white as she pressed her fingers into her palms. "The day he died, I 
vowed I’d become a Dragoneer and avenge his death." She took off, 
headed around another corner and I followed, our dragons coming 
into view as we rounded it.  
Farean picked up her head, cocking it slightly. " Baran  says they will 
kill every Goblin  in the kingdoms ". "Is that our job now?" 
"Goblins killed Esgeril’s father," I explained.  
Farean’s eyes narrowed. " Then we will help them". 
I couldn’t imagine ever killing someone, even as hideous a creature 
as a Goblin. I mean, I knew it would be part of my job as a 
Dragoneer. But I had once thought just like Esgeril about dragons —
that they were hideous beasts —that they should all die because of 
what one had done to my grandfather. And now I had a dragon as a 
best friend and companion. Was it possible we had misjudged 
Goblins in the same manner?  
It was a startling thought, but one I couldn’t easily dismiss.  
 
 
 
I put my new harness on Farean’s back and Esgeril showed me 
how to connect the straps. The front went on the opposite side of 
her forelegs than I had put the ropes. The saddle felt firmer and 
much more secure. The scalloped underside of the buc kles fit against 
the scales of her belly as if they had been molded to them.  
Esgeril directed Farean to fly and do some loops to see how she 
could move in it. I stepped forward, but she put a hand on my 
shoulder. "You don’t have your gear yet. There’s noth ing for the 
straps to connect to. And riding without a harness usually ends 
poorly."  
I thought back to my first ride when I had slid from Farean’s back 
before she was more than a few feet in the air. I nodded. " Go on," I 
told Farean. " Fly without  me. I’ll be down here admiring  your grace." 
Exhilarated by my flattery, she leapt into the air. Baran followed 
Farean into the sky and they swooped around each other, diving at 
each other in mock attacks and generally frolicking in the sun.  
"Baran is a male?" I ask ed blushing, but the answer was obvious 
by what her dragon displayed when he flew overhead. "I thought 
dragons only bonded with riders of the same gender."  
"Sometimes they don’t." Esgeril didn’t add anything more to that.  
We watched them in silence for som e time before I heard Farean 
whine. " Aww,  I don’t want to". Baran landed on the rocks and Farean 
followed him to the ground. I removed the harness and placed it with 
Esgeril’s in a large metal box near the edge of the pavilion.  
We were halfway back to Tira da’s shop before I broke the silence. 
"If you don’t mind telling me, I was wondering what happened to 
your father’s dragon after he died."  
Royal Dragoneer   112 
 She slowed almost to a stop. "The bond between a Dragoneer and 
dragon is very strong. Unbreakable. I’ve known Dragone ers who lost 
their dragon and have barely been able to function after that. Some 
don’t. The Dragoneers have a home in the mountains where those 
who can’t take it are sent, broken husks of Elves and other races so 
catatonic that the healers have to feed and  bathe them."  
I shuddered at the thought. "But what if the dragon survives their 
rider?" I couldn’t imagine similar homes for dragons.  
"A dragon that’s lost their rider is dangerous. They lose their 
minds. They have to be put down or they will attack anyon e, even 
friends."  
"Is that what happened to…"  
"To Niden? No. Dad died in battle. If a rider -less dragon in peace 
is dangerous, one in battle is even more so. Niden took down an 
entire company of Goblins before being brought down by their 
archers. It allowe d mom and Susa to escape." Her voice caught again, 
and this time tears openly rolled down her cheeks. I thought she was 
done speaking, but she resumed. "Then those beasts, those 
abominations, they ate him. Goblins eat dragon met, and they ate 
dad’s dragon in front of his corpse."  
I had no words to comfort her. In fact, I was kind of feeling 
traumatized and in need of comfort myself. Fortunately, we had 
arrived at Tirada’s shop, and I could turn my mind to other matters.  
As we entered, Tiranda was pushing a wooden mannequin out to 
the floor. On it were the new riding leathers, the same Aluminte 
buckles shining around the waist, waiting to accept the straps from 
Farean’s harness. The breastplate was dyed blue nearly equal in color 
to her scales, although, look ing closer, I noticed the royal gold and 
black woven into the stitching. The design reversed for the pants 
with black suede inlaid with blue.  
I sucked in my breath. "It’s beautiful. But how did you make it so 
quickly?"  
Tirada shook her head. "Like I told y ou. This was nearly finished 
already. It needed only some minor modifications. And a happy 
113  Ash Rober ts 
 accident that both your dragon and the originally client’s are Blue. I 
sent your measurements to a tailor and had some more day -to-day 
clothes sent over." She pointe d to a bundle tied in sackcloth on a 
wooden chair. "There’s only a couple sets, but it should get you 
through until you can get back to order a new wardrobe when you 
have more time."  
I looked down at my feet, still clad in the leather boots Theron 
had give n me. "That may be a while." I said, thinking about Authand 
and how little he trusted me.  
"Well, we hope to see you again soon." Tiranda smiled. "If you 
want to change out of that dress, you can use my workroom behind 
the curtain," she said, pointing.  
"I can help if you want," Esgeril said shyly. "Riding leathers can be 
a little confusing the first time."  
"Thank you," I said, grabbing the bundle of clothes while Esgeril 
wheeled the mannequin through the curtain. The area dwarfed the 
front of the shop and li ght streamed through large windows on either 
side positioned high on the walls to capture the most daylight. The 
space was tidy, with even the sheets of leather meticulously stacked 
with edges aligned. Father always said that an organized workspace 
was a s ign of a master craftsman.  
I quickly shed my tattered dress. I gave my chest wrap a cursory 
inspection, but it seemed to have made it through my adventures 
unscathed. Tiranda had given me two functional sets of clothing in 
brown, similar to the ones that E sgeril wore under her riding garb. 
The shirt gave me no problem, but the breeches only reached mid -
thigh before getting stuck.  
I lowered them, but Esgeril put her hand on my arm. "You forgot 
to undo the clasp." Her hand moved to a wooden toggle between my 
legs, accidentally brushing the inside of my thigh. The touch made 
me shudder. It was involuntary, embarrassing, and Esgeril definitely 
noticed, immediately jerking her hand away.  
"The only trousers I’ve ever worn were much too big on me, and I 
could just slide them up. I never wore pants before I was thrown 
Royal Dragoneer   114 
 out," I said sheepishly. "Mother said it wasn’t ladylike." I studied the 
toggle intently, and then fumbled with pushing it through the hole.  
"And you’ve never opened the fly of somebody cute, hidden fro m 
sight in some dark corner of the castle?" She grinned lecherously at 
me. 
"What? No! I had a boyfriend. We were engaged, but all we ever 
did was kiss. There was always some servant around to keep an eye 
on us." I didn’t like thinking of Etlin. I’d been av oiding thinking of 
him for weeks. And now I was beginning to realize our relationship 
hadn’t been the romantic, passionate courtship I’d imagined it to be. 
There was so much I didn’t know about boys. And despite the fact 
that it looked like Lewon had set m e up this morning, I still felt 
drawn to him. I gave a sidelong glance at Esgeril, daring to ask, "Do 
you think that’s something Lewon would expect me to do?"  
Her expression darkened at his name. "He comes from the west." 
She shrugged. "They favor  fast, hot courtships there. Why? Do you 
fancy him?"  
"Yeah," I admitted. "I wouldn’t mind his parents, err, his guardian, 
arranging a match with mine."  
She snorted in laughter, not even bothering to cover her mouth. 
"Arranging a match?" she choked out. "Th at’s rich. Dragoneers don’t 
arrange marriage. We rarely bother with marrying at all."  
The color drained from my face. "Not even your parents?"  
The mention of her recently deceased father sobered her quickly. 
"They loved each other very much. More than the couples in your 
fancy court, I’d bet. But when ma had me, dad simply moved in with 
her, and they informed their commander they would need to ride in 
the same company."  
It didn’t seem right to me, but the look on Esgeril’s face made me 
drop the subject. She  scowled to herself while I examined my 
reflection in the polished metal mirror in the corner. The garments fit 
well, much better than I would have expected from a provincial 
tailor. I was beginning to rethink my belief that the capital had all the 
115  Ash Rober ts 
 best tr adespeople. I picked up the leathers and held them up to 
Esgeril.  
Wordlessly, she took them from me and directed my limbs into 
the appropriate holes, like her personal puppet. I felt badly that I’d 
upset her asking about her parents. But I couldn’t take it  back.  
I fastened the buckles and examined myself again. They fit like a 
second skin, tight enough to keep from binding but loose enough to 
allow free movement. As I admired myself, Esgeril stormed out, 
pushing past the curtain.  
I followed her out to the m ain part of the shop, but she was 
already out the door, standing on the curb, her shoulders hunched.  
Tiranda followed my gaze and shook her head. "She just needs 
some space. Just be there for her as a friend. That is the best thing 
for her. If you can do t hat, I will consider myself the better end of 
the bargain for your leathers."  
"You don’t have to buy my friendship," I protested. "I need a 
friend as much as she does. And I have to pay you something. At 
least let me cover the cost of materials."  
"Not toda y, young lady. I insist." Her face hardened, and I 
withered under her glare. She giggled at my expression, her face 
softening. "Esgeril is my only remaining family. I would give anything 
to see her happy again. And her father’s death isn’t the only thing 
she’s dealing with. Now go, before she takes off and you get lost in 
town." She pushed me in the direction of the door just as Esgeril 
stepped off the curb, heading back toward our dragons without me.  
I looked back, breathed, "thank you," and left, chasing Esgeril 
down the street.  
We reached the dragons in silence. I was getting a little tired of the 
cold-shoulder treatment but remembered Tirada’s advice to just be 
present. Esgeril waited in silence for me to strap myself into my new 
harness on Farean’s back . It took a couple of tries, but she didn’t say 
anything or offer advice from her position on Baran’s back. Then, we 
lifted off and rode back to camp, arriving as the sun approached the 
horizon.  
Royal Dragoneer   116 
 After we landed, I removed the harness and set it in a box in  the 
stable with Farean’s name on it. Tomorrow, I’d be cleaning the 
stable, polishing and oiling other rider’s saddles, and who knew what 
other back -breaking work. And I wasn’t looking forward to it.  
I looked up to find that Esgeril was already gone.  
Someh ow, I’d managed to make my first female Dragoneer friend 
and lose her, all in the same day. So much for Tirada’s vote of 
confidence in me. Mother always said I asked too many questions —
that I was too curious. But I didn’t know how to be any other way.  
I made my way back to my room, catching glares and stares from 
Florian and her friends. I dropped to my straw mattress, not 
bothering to change.  
It wasn’t until I was about to fall asleep that I remembered the 
after-dinner training meeting at the lake Lewon ha d promised me.  
Had he waited there for me, wondering why I hadn’t come? Or 
had his invitation been just another joke to humiliate the princess 
Dragoneer?  
I had no idea. And honestly, at that point, I was too tired to care.  
 
 
 
I stood before the entrance to the dragon stables in the early 
morning light. I was beginning to understand why Father chewed 
stimleaf every morning. Thinking of him brought a twinge, as always. 
But if this was to be my lot in life, I was de termined to make the 
most of it.  
Metal clanged behind me. "You’ll need these," Esgeril said. She 
held a bucket in one hand and a rake in the other. "These should be 
inside, but I overheard Florian last night. Don’t expect to find any 
supplies."  
"Thank you, " I tried to meet her gaze, but I guess what I had said 
the day before was still too raw, and she looked away. "Where are 
yours?" I asked.  
"It's not my punishment." She jammed her fists in her pockets. 
Dragoneer pockets were designed for function, unlike the clothing 
I'd once owned. Half of my outfits didn't even have pockets. What 
need did I have to carry things? I had servants for that. But now I 
could carry supplies for a day or more in the pouches that adorned 
my clothing. Or, apparently the hands of s omebody that was upset at 
me for reasons she wouldn't say.  
"Just do yourself a favor," Esgeril said after a pause. "Don't say 
anything like that to the others. It won't —" The toe of her boot slid 
through the dirt between us. "It won't end well for you." Wi th that 
cryptic message, she turned and left.  
Has Baran  told you what's  going on?I asked Farean. Because  I'm lost. 
He says that it is beneath  the affairs  of dragons.  I'm going back to sleep. 
Menoth  is in heat, and I got no sleep last night due to the males boasting  of how 
they would  mate her. 
Royal Dragoneer   118 
 I blushed at the image she sent over and my mind slipped to 
Lewon. Would he fight others for my hand? I imagine Etlin’s father 
had argued with the other dukes over whose toddler would marry me 
one day.  
None of this remi niscing about my life before the hatching would 
get me through my punishment more quickly. Clutching Esgeril's 
rake and bucket, I pushed open the door.  
Mucking the pens at Theron's had prepared me somewhat for the 
smell, but dragons were much bigger creatu res than pigs. Stalls lined 
all four walls for the distance of the building. It seemed smaller on 
the inside, until I realized the far wall was a divider for the other half. 
Just as the boys and girls at the camp were separated, so were our 
dragons. That m eant that Esgeril had to walk the entire length of the 
massive building just to enter from the boy's side.  
"It's about time you showed up." The laughter of several girls 
broke me from my thoughts. "Thinking you're just going to waltz in 
here after we're al l done?" I didn't need to look up. I'd only heard 
Florian’s voice once, but I wouldn’t forget it. I had a feeling I'd be 
hearing a lot of it over the next three years. "Don't worry, we 
wouldn't dream of denying her highness what she deserves."  
I looked ove r to the stall where they were sitting. Florian leaned 
against her Green dragon's hide which seemed to melt into the 
shadows behind her. The other girls from yesterday arranged 
themselves on pails nearby. Florian’s dragon’s stall was immaculate, 
but the ot hers were untouched.  
"I'm sorry about yesterday. I don't want any trouble," I said.  
"Then you better get to work. We've got our stalls covered. You 
can take care of the rest. But you better hurry. Somebody told 
Authand that you were avoiding your punishmen t." On that cue, the 
girls scattered to their own stalls as the door opened behind me.  
"Why aren't you cleaning?" The Colonel's voiced boomed behind 
me. 
119  Ash Rober ts 
 I whirled around with the rake still in my hand. Authand grabbed 
the implement from me before it hit hi s face and threw it at my feet. 
Even the dragons fell silent as they waited for his reaction.  
"I'm sorry," I said in a small voice. Why was I always saying that 
here? It was like I could never get anything right.  
He didn't move; he barely even breathed. Wh en Father got like 
that, I knew what came next wouldn't be good.  
"Why aren't you cleaning?" He repeated at last. "Why isn't anyone 
cleaning? Do you all want another day of punishment?" He said, 
louder. The words echoed off the stone walls. Florian and her friends 
scurried back to work, leaving me with an empty bucket and an angry 
Dragoneer.  
"I just got here. " I admitted after my ears stopped ringing.  
"Another day's punishment for tardiness." Authand looked like he 
was going to say something else but left i nstead.  
I leaned down to pick up the rake, but Florian stepped on the 
handle, pinning it to the floor. "You don't belong here," she said.  
"Don't you think I know that?" I stood, facing here. She was 
nearly a head taller than me and I had to look up to meet  her glare.  
She crossed her arms over her chest. "What a waste of a dragon. 
They shouldn't let you nobles come to the hatchings. There's 
someone out there who has worked hard their entire life, 
heartbroken and stuck in their life because you took their cha nce to 
become a Dragoneer."  
Florian turned her head back towards her companions who had 
mucked out their stalls into the central hallway. It was the space the 
dragons fed into when they entered through holes in the ceiling. 
"Come on, girls. We're done. The  rest is for her highness." Without a 
word, they filed past me.  
Over the next four hours, I carefully cleaned out each dragon's 
stall. As the day progressed, they woke and left. Their great wings 
spun over the muck pile, and I had to take several breaks to  move it 
outside. Other riders entered to tend to their dragons, but they 
ignored me as I worked. Was this how the maids in the castle had felt 
Royal Dragoneer   120 
 when I’d pretended they weren't even in the room with me unless I’d 
needed something? It was a horrible feeling and I vowed I would do 
better if I was ever allowed to return.  
 
 
 
The next morning, I followed Esgeril to a small arena near the 
dragon pavilion for the first class of the day —Tactics. But the 
professor, a small  woman with deep lines in her face, turned me 
away. "You are so far behind, dear, that you have no clue what is 
going on. Authand wants you to report to Flatch, instead."  
The Dragoneers who had arrived before us stared at me as I left 
the room, murmuring b etween themselves, undoubtedly discussing 
how much of a fool I’d made of myself once again. I went back 
outside and realized that I did not know how to find Flatch or even 
who he was. I turned and steeled myself to go back in and ask in 
front of everyone, cementing my reputation as the camp idiot.  
"Ho," a raspy voice called behind me. A whitehaired Elf stood 
hunched over where there had been no one a moment before. 
"Follow me." He turned sharply and strode across the grounds.  
Figuring he couldn’t possibly b e a new rider, I chased after him. I 
was surprised by how quickly he moved and was huffing by the time 
we reached a small hut by the lake. He pointed at a small rock half 
buried in the sand, and I took the hint to sit.  
"In the mornings, I will teach you th eory and, in the afternoon, 
you will go with Lewon to train."  
Had Lewon asked for that privilege or been assigned to me? Well, 
at least I’d get to ask him if he’d set me up in the Capture the Flag 
game.  
"Did you say something? Speak up, girl. My hearing is n’t what it 
used to be."  
"I didn’t say anything."  
Royal Dragoneer   122 
 "Good. Best to keep your mouth shut and your ears open." He 
disappeared into the hut and came back with a wooden chair that he 
placed in front of my rock, finally introducing himself as Flatch. He 
then sett led into his chair before launching into a history of the 
Dragoneers. My mind wandered, and I paid more attention to the 
position of the sun than to the lecture. I tracked its progress to its 
zenith thinking of seeing Lewon again. Finally, the bells tolled , 
signaling lunch. I said a quick thanks to Flatch for the lesson I had 
ignored and rushed off to the dining hall.  
After lunch, Farean and I flew to the spot by the lake where 
Lewon had said he would meet me. Calen splashed in the lake while 
Lewon whittled  away at a stick with a mean looking knife.  
"Sticks  are boring ". Farean commented, as we set down on the 
sandy beach. " Except  the big sticks Goblins  make to puncture  dragon  hide". 
My poor little dragon baby was growing up and learning the 
dangers of the wo rld. The thought made me sad.  
I fumbled with my harness buckles, hoping Lewon wouldn’t 
notice.  
I climbed down and took the saddle off Farean, saying, "Well, go 
on, then. Have fun and see what Calen can teach you." She took a 
running jump into the shallows and landed with a splash that 
threatened to soak me despite my distance.  
Lewon shoved his stick point down into the ground and folded his 
knife before acknowledging my presence. "You sure know how to 
get yourself in trouble. In just one day, you managed to  find more 
trouble than most Dragoneers find their entire first year."  
"Maybe I had some help," I said angrily, eyeing him. "You pointed 
me to a flag with a Green ambush around it, promising I’d the hero 
of the game. And somehow, it didn’t work out that wa y." 
"You think I set you up?" He asked, sounding hurt. "Do you really 
believe that of me after all we’ve been through together?" He was 
upset, that much was obvious. But was it because he’d been falsely 
accused, or caught in the act?  
123  Ash Rober ts 
 "I don’t know," I said , moving toward him. "Yesterday I was 
humiliated, mocked by my peers, tossed by a giant, almost died crash -
landing into a forest, didn’t eat all day, and managed to piss off the 
one other person who’s been remotely nice to me. It was a really bad 
day."  
"Well, now you’ve managed to piss off both people who’ve been 
nice to you," he said, but he was grinning. "You seem to have a real 
knack for it."  
"I know." I nodded, my blond curls falling in my face. "I’m very 
talented. Which is exactly why I need your help.  Please teach me so I 
don’t get into any more trouble."  
He shook his head. "I’m going to teach you how to fight. How to 
defend yourself and how to attack. Not really skills that will get you 
in less trouble." He pulled a scabbard down from the tree branch 
he’d been sitting under and handed it to me. "This is a practice 
sword. Completely dull edge."  
I held the short -sword. It was heavier than I expected. How did 
everyone carry these things around?  
"I don’t see why you need that," Farean complained, pausing h er 
splashing in the shallows. " Surely  a sword  is no match  for my talons ". 
"Because you won’t always be on dragon -back," Lewon answered 
as if he’d heard her. Maybe Calen had passed along what Farean had 
said. "Now hold up your sword," he instructed.  
I raised it above my head with both hands, then saw him grasping 
his one handed in front of his chest. I quickly lowered mine, passing 
it from hand to hand as if checking for balance before settling it into 
my right hand and assuming a similar position.  
He blinked. "You’re right handed? That’s going to make this more 
difficult. I’ve never met anyone before who didn’t favor their left."  
My face soured. "We spent nearly three full days together and you 
didn’t realize I was a righty?" Righties like me were rar e, sometimes 
considered abominations among the lower classes. If I had been a 
child in a trade, my right hand would have been tied behind my back 
until I’d learned to work with my left. But being a princess had 
Royal Dragoneer   124 
 certain advantages, including the right to us e whatever hand I 
preferred.  
But Lewon hadn’t even noticed until now. Which either meant he 
didn’t care about the stigma, or he didn’t care about me enough to 
notice.  
I lunged at him with my sword.  
He took a step to his right, dropping away from my thrust with 
ease. 
I swung again, and he blocked. I made several more attempts, each 
more impotent than the last, until I stood bent over, huffing from the 
exertion.  
"That wasn’t bad for your first try,’ Lewon praised me. "Now that 
I’ve seen your natural stance an d style, I know what I need to teach 
you."  
"You made me mad on purpose?" I managed in between pants, as 
my glare softened.  
"Of course. Righties tend to be sensitive about it. It was a sure 
way to get you riled up." He smiled.  
I couldn’t believe he’d baited  me like that. And I’d fallen for it, 
hook, line, and sinker. I was going to have to be careful around this 
one. He already knew me to well for his own good. And for mine.  
I turned just in time to see Farean, in flight, burst through the 
trees with Calen h ot on her trail. I hadn’t even noticed them leave the 
lake. Farean tucked her wings in and dove towards the water. My 
heart pounded as she approached it with rising speed. At the last 
moment, she unfurled her wings and glided over the lake, her wing 
tips m aking ripples in the still water.  
Calen made for her, but Farean reached the warm sand and rode 
the updraft like an arrow shot from a bow. She curved up and behind 
him, tagging his rump with her snout before dropping down and 
landing on the sand without so  much as a cloud. Calen landed next to 
her. " He says I’m a natural ", Farean squealed in my head. " I’ll be flying 
with the year two’s in weeks ". 
125  Ash Rober ts 
 "You however," Lewon said to me, "have a lot to learn. And I 
can’t say that you have much affinity for a blade."  
"Hmph. Don’t forget I’ve never held a sword before today. At the 
castle, the servants even cut my meat. If I’m so bad, you better get to 
work training me."  
"Then follow my lead. We will start with how to hold yourself." 
He stood with his legs spread, faci ng me. I tried to follow his 
example, but he frowned. "No, square your shoulders."  
I twisted my body which elicited a head shake.  
"No, no. Here’s let me show you."  
He closed the gap between us and put his hands on my shoulders, 
pushing them into the positi on he wanted. I felt warm at his touch 
and tried to think of something else before the blush appeared at my 
ears. 
"How long have you been practicing this?" I nodded at the blade 
in my hand.  
"Ever since Authand found me after the Goblins sacked my 
village. That day, I swore I would never be defenseless again."  
It seemed everyone at camp had a story of tragedy dealing with the 
Goblin war. All this time, I’d blamed the dragon that killed my 
grandfather and not the Orc who rode it.  
"And my job is to make sure y ou aren’t defenseless either," Lewon 
said. "So, let’s focus on defensive skills. I will attack, and I want you 
to defend yourself from me." He backed up a few steps and then 
came rushing at me.  
I raised my sword, but he easily slipped past my guard and landed 
the broadside of his weapon on my shoulder.  
"Ouch." I dropped my sword in surprise and rubbed where he’d 
hit me. I could already feel the welt forming under my tunic.  
"Pick it up!" he barked. I bent down, and by the time I was 
standing he was on top  of me. I raised my sword, but he was faster. 
He brought the pommel down on my head gently enough to allay any 
damage but still hard enough to hurt.  
Royal Dragoneer   126 
 He backed off, and I returned to the stance he had demonstrated 
earlier. He moved again. This time I blocke d his blow but fell 
backward from the impact. My head bounced against the hard 
ground and stars flashed before my eyes.  
"Hold!" I cried. I tried to sit up, but red -hot throbbing stopped 
me. 
He was beside me in a flash. "Are you okay?" His hands grabbed 
my shoulders as he pulled me up and inspected my scalp.  
I blinked away the worst of the pain and panted. "I’ll be okay; I 
just need to rest a minute."  
He nodded but said nothing. He sat down beside me and stared at 
me. His gaze unsettled me. Perhaps my fall w as more serious than I 
thought.  
I felt a rush of air and Farean landed beside me, sending soothing 
thoughts to my aching head. The leaves on the ground fluttered in 
the air currents she created. A melon -sized black rock with red 
streaks poked from the grou nd where her talons had disturbed the 
grass. I grabbed the rock and pulled it from the dirt. "What’s this?" I 
held it up, inspecting it. The red glittered in the filtered sunlight 
looking for the all world like blood flowing through its veins.  
Lewon grabbe d it out of my hands.  
"Hey!" I shrieked. I tried to stand to take it back but was 
overcome by dizziness and sat back down.  
He bent and gently placed it on the ground under a bush several 
feet away. He lowered it as gently as an egg before returning his 
attention to me.  
"That is firerock. It is rare in this part of the world, but very 
dangerous. If you had dropped that, it would have killed us all." He 
stood and held out his hand. I grabbed hold of it and he pulled me to 
my feet. The world spun around me and  I wobbled. "We’re done for 
the day," he said. "Farean, get Kalia back to camp, and to a healer. A 
head knock can be serious. I’d escort you, but I need to take that 
chunk of firerock into town so that it can be disposed of properly."  
127  Ash Rober ts 
 He helped me onto Far ean’s back and fastened my buckles, his 
hands grazing my stomach and thighs.  
I sucked my breath, relishing his touch. I thought about reaching 
out and touching him back —the damp hair curled at the back of his 
neck, or the sharp curve of his jawline. But I wasn’t brave enough.  
He finished his work and gave Farean a pat on the rump. "Fly as 
smooth as a red and get her back safely," he told her. She nodded at 
him and jumped into the sky.  

 
 
 
The jolt of Farean laun ching into the sky sent me reeling. My 
hands slipped from her neck ridge, but the harness held. I regained 
my hold and drew myself in close to her body. The ground rushing 
below us made my head hurt even more, so I caused my eyes. The 
day was still early, but I was so tired. Farean knew the way. I could 
just take a nap while we flew.  
"I’m worried  for you. You don’t feel right." Her words pulled me back to 
awareness.  
"What  do you mean?  I’m just tired and my head hurts". I patted her side 
as her powerful shou lders flexed in time to her beating wings.  
"No, something  is wrong.  I should  heal you". No sooner had she finished 
thinking those words than she started descending below the treetops.  
"Silly dragon.  You can’t heal me. Just take me to the healer  for some herb 
heads. " "No, that’s not right." 
"See, even your thoughts  are all wrong. " "And I have something  better than 
herbs.  I have magic. " 
"Since when do you have magic"? "Is this a real conversation  or is it a dream?  
It feels like dream. " 
"Baran  says magic flows through  a dragon  like blood.  We are the channel,  but 
our Dragoneers  are the source.  And you are awake,  but you feel fuzzy. " 
"But I don’t have magic". I protested" . Hardly  anybody  has magic 
anymore. " 
Farean landed on a bed of leaves with hardly a rustle. " Magic  is 
strong  in you. I can feel it. Now,  get off. I can’t do anything  from below you." 
I struggled with the buckles and slid to the ground. As soon as I 
was off, she turned and stood over me. The blur of motion made me 
dizzy, and I collapsed to my knees . 
Royal Dragoneer   130 
 "That’s  a good idea. Lie down,  "she ordered.  
I crumpled the rest of the way in compliance and felt her breath 
on my scalp. I tensed, all my old childhood fears of dragon attacks 
rising to the surface of my thoughts.  
"Oh, don’t be ridiculous.  "Hurt crept into her voice. " I would  never hurt 
you". 
I felt a talon touch against a tender spot on the back of my skull 
and winced, crying out as if she were stabbing into my flesh.  
"This is not good." "A wound  like this killed  Vernis’s  rider"." Her tone 
was now ting ed with fear.  
"Who?" I turned my head, forgetting to communicate mentally.  
"Shush ". "I need to concentrate  and draw out your dormant  magic. " Her hot 
breath blew against my head and I felt the lump tingle. She blew 
again, and the tingling intensified until it burned. I cried out, but 
Farean pressed against me, keeping me immobile.  
A felt her breath a third time. I squirmed but she was much too 
strong for me. Then the burning stopped, replaced by a dull ache 
which also faded after a few minutes. Her weight sh ifted, and her 
breath tickled gently on my neck as she peered closely at the knot.  
"That’s  much better". She lifted herself off me and sat on her 
haunches.  
I reached a hand to the back of my head and the bruise from 
earlier was gone. It was still a little tender, but the swelling had 
subsided.  
"See, magic. " She gave me that odd, slightly menacing look that 
dragons had when they attempted to mimic a smile.  
I sat up, the dizziness gone. "Well, let’s get back. If Lewon sent 
word about my concussion, the entire  camp will be searching for us." 
I leapt onto her back, feeling more energy than I had since being 
exiled from the castle.  
We broke through the treetops just in time to catch Lewon and 
Calen rising up from the camp. They spotted us and circled above 
until we approached for our landing. Lewon was on his feet and at 
my side as I slid from Farean’s back.  
131  Ash Rober ts 
 "You got rid of the firerock already?" I asked him.  
"You’ve been gone over an hour. What happened? Are you okay?"  
"I’m fine. I had some, uh, private business to attend to." The lie 
came surprisingly easily, and I felt a little bad. But I wanted to know 
more about Farean’s magical revelation before I told anyone.  
"Go see the healer." Lewon gently pushed me towards the low 
building where the healer worked. "I wil l take care of your harness 
and Farean."  
I shook my head, thankful it didn’t hurt or make me dizzy. "No, I 
really am fine. The flight back did the trick."  
He looked at me and sighed. "If you say so. But I’ll make sure 
Esgeril checks on you later."  
I ignored his comment while I unbuckled Farean’s harness. If I 
could reveal Farean’s secret to anyone it would be Esgeril. Through 
her family history, she would know if something like this had 
happened before. I turned my attention back to Lewon. "I really a m 
okay, but do what you must."  
He nodded and left without another word.  
I went the opposite direction.  
Florian and her crew sat outside the girl’s barracks as usual. She 
tried to block my path as I approached, but I dug my heel into her 
foot. I wasn’t stro ng enough to hurt her, but it surprised her enough 
to create the opening I needed to push past her into the building.  
Shortly after I got back to my room, Esgeril knocked on the door. 
"How did it go? I want all the juicy details." She smiled and collapsed 
on the straw mattress by my window.  
"Well, I have a lot to learn," I said. "Farean is a natural in the air. 
Good enough that I’m holding her back. But Lewon gave me some 
good bruises today."  
She laughed. "I don’t know why we need to learn how to wield the 
blade. They don’t do any good from dragon -back. I’m glad Baran’s 
red, so I can use the crossbow dad trained me on. Did you see the 
healer? She’ll have an ointment to help with the bruising."  
Royal Dragoneer   132 
 "Actually, I have a question for you. What you know about healing  
magic?"  
"Healing magic?" She shook her head. "Don’t waste your time 
worrying about that. Nobody has any magic worth talking about."  
I frowned. "What about what Baran told Farean? About dragons 
channeling magic and focusing our powers?"  
"I broke my arm the  day after the hatching." She lifted her left arm 
and flexed it, then dropped it back to her side. "The cast came off 
just before we left for here. Maybe Dragoneers heal a few days 
quicker than normal folks. Could be dragon magic, or just that we’re 
mostly  tough people."  
I looked away, wondering what to say. How did you bring up 
magic when someone didn’t believe in it?  
"So, by the look on your face, I’d guess something happened?" she 
said. "Tell me."  
"I hit my head my head pretty hard during training. Hard enough 
to worry Lewon, so he cut our session short. He’s going to ask you to 
keep an eye on me later, just so you know. Anyway, on the way back 
to the healer, Farean got worried. Then she said that thing about 
magic that Baran told her and insisted she cou ld heal me. Started 
spouting nonsense about a dragon king." I turned my head and 
parted my hair. "I couldn’t see what was going on, but it burned and 
then it stopped throbbing and felt better." I turned back to an open -
mouthed Esgeril. "She said I had stro ng magic. But I’ve never 
noticed anything like that before."  
Esgeril sat there gaping at me, at a complete loss for words.  
"Please don’t tell anyone," I begged. "I’m enough of a freak here 
already."  
Her expression softened. "You’re not a freak. You just do n’t know 
anything." She broke into a smile. "At all. About anything. And I’ve 
never heard of dragon magic working like that. But I’ll have a chat 
with Baran and see what he says, about both you and Farean. We 
could even look in the camp archives and see if  they mention 
anything similar. But, yeah, I wouldn’t bring up dragon magic with 
133  Ash Rober ts 
 anyone until we know more or could prove something. Maybe your 
injury wasn’t as bad as you thought it was. You can’t see the back of 
your own head, you know?"  
"I know," I gave  her a friendly shove, and she rolled backward and 
off the bed with wild exaggerated motions, as if I had the strength to 
bowl her over. "See, I know that much," I insisted. "Actually, I know 
plenty. Just not anything useful." I laughed, and she let out on e of her 
signature snorts. "Now help me learn something useful so I can get 
out of my punishment sooner."  

 
 
 
I brought my sword up to block the blow just inches from my 
head. The force knocked me backwards and I dropped to a knee. 
"Hold," I called. I huffed as I supported my weight on the pommel 
of the practice blade. After several months of training now, I was 
getting better, but Lewon still usually bested me.  
"Goblins won’t give you a chance to catch your brea th," he said. 
He held out his hand, and I used it to pull myself up.  
"I know, but you will." I smiled, sheathing my blade. I wandered 
over to a stream near where it fed into the lake and scooped some 
cool water in my hands, washing away the worst of the di rt and sweat 
that caked my face.  
Looking up, a saw a glint of red, under the shade of a nearby tree. 
I’d only seen it once, but Lewon made enough of an impression 
about its danger that I’d always recognize firerock at a glance now.  
"Tell him". Farean’s voice distracted me as it echoed in my head as 
she glided lazily in the air currents above.  
"What does she want you to tell me?" Lewon prodded.  
I turned to see him wading waist high in the lake with a sharpened 
stick aimed at the surface. He kept his eyes glued on the fish darting 
between his legs, not bothering to look up when he asked the 
question.  
"You know, that gets a bit old. What’s the point of having secret 
telepathic conversations with my dragon if Calen just repeats them to 
you," I teased.  
He laug hed. "When dragons are involved, there is no privacy. So, 
you might as well tell me." He moved toward me in the water, his we 
shirt and pants clinging to his body in a very distracting way.  
Royal Dragoneer   136 
 He wasn’t going to give up, it seemed. I wondered if that meant he  
had some inkling already. "Well," I said, hesitant but determined, "I 
noticed that a lot of the male and female Dragoneers have paired off. 
Florian is already spreading rumors about us based on our training 
sessions. I was wondering if there was anyone yo u…" My voice 
trailed off as I got closer to asking the question.  
He smiled. The same sly little grin that he had shown me so many 
times in the past few weeks. And that grin alone fueled my hope. But 
he didn’t say anything. He just stared at me, wading clos er to me on 
the shoreline and waiting for me to go on.  
So, I did. "I’m only asking because. Well, because. I like you. And 
I can’t ignore that anymore. I like you. It scares me. But I need to 
know if you feel the same way." I let out a long unsteady breath . 
There. I’d said it. The flag was in his possession now.  
He walked right up and stood over me —still with that same 
cheeky grin and only the sound of water dripping off of him. His 
spear floated in the lake behind him, forgotten. The seconds ticked 
by as w e stood like that, close but not touching, my head just below 
his chin line so I could see the pulse jumping in his neck. It seemed 
to be jumping very quickly. I knew mine sure was. I was hoping he 
would kiss me, but instead he raised his hand, brushing my  sweaty 
hair from my cheek.  
"Training’s not the place for this," he said gently "It wouldn’t be 
right. I’m your teacher."  
I felt like the wind had been knocked out of me. I blinked, trying 
to understand.  
"That’s enough of a break. Back to training." He hel d out his 
hand. I felt like collapsing to the ground, screaming in frustration, 
and going off to hide all at once. Instead, I assumed the stance he 
had shown me. He attacked and I let my frustration fueled my 
moves. I deflected a series of thrusts, holding  my own for much 
longer than I had previously.  
Finally, he passed my guard and knocked me to the ground. I 
rolled and used the momentum to lift me back to my feet. This time I 
137  Ash Rober ts 
 went on the attack. Lewon blinked but raised his sword to block. He 
let me try s everal more times, but I never came close to landing a 
blow.  
He switched back to offense, landing several more touches while I 
managed to stay on my feet. He feinted, and while I was distracted by 
his sword he swept my knees with his leg. I landed on my ba ck and 
he pressed the blunted point of his weapon against my chest.  
He withdrew the point, sheathing the sword and extending his 
hand instead. Kalia," he said my name softly, like a caress. "Get 
cleaned up and meet me at the stables an hour before the dinn er 
bell."  
I gulped twice before I was able to ask hopefully, "You mean for a 
date?"  
Again, he only responded with a smile. That grin made my heart 
flutter and infuriated me at the same time. Why couldn’t he just give 
me a straight answer for once?  
He walke d past me, water cascading off his body, and went to put 
our practice equipment away.  
I clambered onto Farean’s back, but then remember something. 
"I’m still under my punishment," I reminded him. "I can’t leave the 
camp."  
He dismissed my concern with a wav e of his hand, not bothering 
to look up from his work. "I already cleared it with Authand. Don’t 
worry."  
He had cleared it with Authand? That meant he’d planned 
something for us before I’d even broached the question. My heart 
leapt just as Farean leapt int o the sky.  
"I told you to ask him, "she said. " You humans  make mating  way too 
complicated. " 
She wasn’t wrong.  
Back at the stables, I made record time removing her saddle, 
giving it only the most cursory of cleanings before putting it away. I 
found Esgeril in the central Pavilion. "Come on, I need your help." I 
Royal Dragoneer   138 
 grabbed her arm without stopping and pulled her to her feet, nearly 
over balancing her.  
"What’s the matter?"  
"Nothing, for a change.  But I do have a date." I doubled our pace 
until we were just short of a run. "And I have no clue what to wear. 
Help me go through my trunk from home. I’m finally going to have a 
chance to wear a dress again."  
I barely noticed Esgeril shut the door behind her when we entered 
my room. I ran straight for the trunk, tossing the lid open with 
enough force to rock it. I started pulling garments out.  
"Do you think I should go with the blue dress to match Farean’s 
scales or the green to match Calen?" I held the tw o up, so she could 
compare.  
"Neither." Esgeril shook her head. "Goblins have been spotted in 
the woods, and Colonel Authand has grounded everyone. No one is 
allowed leave camp."  
"No, that can’t be right. Lewon said he’d cleared it."  
"I don’t know what " Lewon" told you, but the Colonel was 
adamant. You can’t leave."  
I crossed the small room with two quick steps and stood over her. 
"Are you making this up? Why are you ruining this? Are you 
jealous?" I demanded.  
"Jealous?" She scoffed, placing her hands on her  hips and staring 
defiantly at me. "Why would I make up a lie? It’s easy enough to 
check. Just go ask the Colonel."  
"I don’t have time for that. And you know the Colonel hates me. 
He’d probably ground me no matter what, just on principle." I 
turned away fr om her, almost in tears. "Why can’t you just be happy 
for me? Finally, somebody accepts me for who I really am, and I get 
to do something for myself. Since the hatching, every decision has 
been about Farean."  
"Oh, poor you," she said sarcastically. "Poor p retty princess born 
with a golden spoon in her mouth. Now you finally find out what it 
means to live for someone other than yourself, and you run into the 
139  Ash Rober ts 
 arms of the first boy who smirks at you. Your independence is just 
something you pretend to have unti l someone comes along to take 
care of you."  
That struck a little too close to home. I narrowed my eyes as I 
exhaled out my nose. I leaned forward, close enough that my breath 
toyed with a stray lock that lay across her forehead. "Get out of my 
room," I his sed. 
Esgeril held her ground as we glared at each other. She 
sidestepped around me and grabbed the door knob. Opening it, she 
spoke in a low voice. "Lewon is up to something. You can’t trust 
him. Don’t say that I didn’t warn you." Then she was gone, leavin g 
me to my own thoughts.  
"Kalia"," what’s  wrong?  "Farean called from the stables, sensing my 
distress.  
"Be quiet. I’m fine." I waved her off even though she couldn’t see 
me. 
I looked down at the two dresses and grabbed the green one. Etlin 
had always said green suited me.  
Thinking of him didn’t bring the twinge of pain it once had. In 
fact, it had been weeks since he’d even crossed my mind. I’d been so 
devastated when he left me. Was Esgeril right about my 
independence? Was it just something I put on like a  pretty dress to 
attract someone new to take care of me? No, that wasn’t fair. I had 
grown leaps and bounds since I’d come to camp. I did everything for 
myself and I was a good Dragoneer. Being independent didn’t mean 
you couldn’t have friends or boyfriend s. You could still want and 
have those relationships. You just didn’t need them desperately or 
lose yourself in them. But would I lose myself in Lewon? Well, there 
was only one way to find out.  

 
 
 
I brushed my hands through my pony tail as I walked to the 
stables. I had hoped Esgeril would braid my hair for me, but I would 
have to make do with what I had done looking into the barrack’s 
washroom mirror. If I missed even one strand, it whipped painfully 
in my face  when I flew. It was probably why many of the female 
riders cut their hair short like boys.  
At this late hour, the stables were deserted. The other Dragoneers 
had finished their classes for the day and mealtime for the dragons 
started earlier than ours. A few slumbered in their berths. Farean 
shouldn’t be eating; she knew we would be flying tonight, but she 
was absent. I opened my storage locker retrieve Farean’s harness 
from its storage trunk before calling her back.  
"You won’t need that." I jumped at the sound of Lewon’s voice. I 
turned around, my heart pounding in my chest.  
"I thought we were flying somewhere," I said, trying not to show 
my disappointment. Was this all just a set -up again?  
He saw my discomfort and shook his head. "Farean gets a break 
tonight. We’ll ride together on Calen. You’ll just have to hook onto 
me." He gave a little half turn and pointed to a D -ring at the small of 
his back that I hadn’t noticed before.  
I followed him to Calen’s stable and stood back as Lewon 
harnessed his dragon and climbed onto its back. Once secure, he held 
out his hand to me.  
I hesitated. I’d been training for three months, but I’d never 
touched a dragon who wasn’t Farean, let alone ridden one.  
Lewon shook his arm, breaking me from my thoughts.  
Royal Dragoneer   142 
 I grabbed his ha nd and climbed on. The buckles snapped into 
place easily, pulling me very snuggly into Lewon’s back. Calen took 
two steps, and we were airborne.  
One of the first things I noticed was that we were not flying in the 
direction of the village where Esgeril’s a unt owned her shop. I 
considered bringing that up, but it was hard to talk on a dragon. And 
I didn’t want him to think I didn’t trust him.  
The wind buffeted me, pushing me back and forth. A gust 
knocked my grip loose and my buckles tensed against Lewon’s b ack 
pulling him askew as well.  
I grabbed at his shoulders, making it more difficult for him to hold 
onto the harness.  
He grasped Calen’s neck ridge and pulled himself forward in the 
saddle.  
I pried my fingers around the saddle’s edge and pulled myself back  
as well.  
"Hold on," he shouted over his shoulder.  
"I’m trying."  
"No." The wind made it difficult to hear, but there was no 
mistaking his growl of frustration. "Hold on to " me". I don’t want 
you pulling me back again."  
"Oh." The sound was lost in the wind as I tried to decide where to 
put my hands.  
Still holding on to the dragon’s neck with one arm, Lewon reached 
around and yanked my hands to his chest. I took the hint and 
wrapped my arms around his body. Calen rode an air current higher, 
and I instinctivel y pressed myself closer to Lewon. He was so warm. 
And I could feel the beating of his heart, his chest expanding and 
contracting with each breath. The heat he radiated was helping 
protect me against the chill of the air flowing past. This was much 
more int imate than I’d ever been with Etlin. I felt flush and was 
grateful for the fact that Lewon couldn’t see my reaction, or my face.  
I recalled my conversation with Esgeril on how casually 
Dragoneers viewed romantic relationships, especially those from the 
143  Ash Rober ts 
 West like where Lewon was from. That was enough to jolt me back 
to reality, and I pulled away from him a little but kept my arms 
around his chest with the lightest of grips.  
We rode in silence until white smoke appeared on the horizon. We 
made our way towards  it, and an assortment of stone and wood 
buildings came into view surrounded by a crude stone wall. Judging 
by its size and location, I guessed this was Suzu, Darneta’s second 
largest city.  
We had traveled there once when I was a child. My father took a 
comprehensive yearlong tour of the kingdom every five years of his 
rule. It helped the outlands feel connected to their king and showed 
that he cared about their lives.  
The dragon pavilion here was not so grand as it had been at 
Esgeril’s village. Further fr om the training grounds, I guessed it didn’t 
receive as much dragon traffic as the smaller town. We landed and 
deposited our harnesses in a locker before I excused myself in search 
of a mirror to fix my hair before anyone noticed how messy it had 
come.  
When I returned from the pavilion’s washroom, I found Lewon 
leaning against a pillar at the exit. He saw me and straightened, 
holding his left arm out. I took it awkwardly. Esgeril had taken to my 
righthandedness gracefully and stood on the other side to 
accommodate me. Why was I comparing Lewon to her? I took 
Lewon’s arm with more vigor than I intended, forcing the strange 
thoughts away. He couldn’t help it if he was used to most people 
being left -handed.  
Lewon led me to a dim public house with sparse candles  providing 
the only illumination. Despite the crude outward appearance, the 
owner was well dressed and led us to our table without a word. I 
perused the menu, which further showed the establishment to be 
more upscale than the average tavern, and ordered.  
Lewon spoke after the owner was out of earshot. "I know this 
isn’t as posh as the capital or the castle, but I figured you would enjoy 
a change from the camp’s cafeteria."  
Royal Dragoneer   144 
 Without the stress of training or traveling across Goblin -infested 
roads, we fell int o an easy conversation. I thought I had gotten to 
know Lewon pretty well, but I hadn’t even scratched the surface. I 
barely noticed my meal, tasty but forgettable, as the conversation 
progressed. I wished we could stay there forever.  
But then two pale -skinned men sidled up to our booth and slid 
onto the benches next to us. I was so startled, I didn’t know what to 
say. The tavern wasn’t full. There were other places to sit. And I 
hadn’t seen many, but their black hair and red eyes told me they were 
Nightbloo ds. The one next to me opened his mouth to speak, 
providing further proof with a flash of his teeth, sharpened to fanged 
points.  
"Where’s our money, Lewon?" he said, staring at me hungrily. 
"Roland doesn’t like it when his runecube players don’t pay."  
"Runecubes?" I squeaked. "Those are illegal."  
The Nightblood elbowed me. "Still, you’re boyfriend here has a 
weakness for them. He owes the boss a stoneweight." He grinned, 
showing his fangs again.  
It would take a Dragoneer four years to earn that much.  
"Lewon, how could you lose so much money?" I asked.  
"Because Roland cheats." He banged his fist on the table.  
With a Nightblood’s fabled reflexes, the one next to me grabbed 
Lewon’s hand. "Careful, boy. Roland has been patient with you till 
now, but he won’t  wait any longer. Don’t make this harder on 
yourself."  
"I have his money, Bior," Lewon said.  
"You do?" The Nightblood and I said in unison.  
"Yes. Well, the next best thing." He pointed at me. "Boys, meet 
Princess Kalia of Darneta."  
Both the Nightbloods sta red at me as I stared at Lewon. This 
couldn’t be happening. He wouldn’t do this. Who would do this?  
"I don’t have any more money than he does," I told the 
Nightblood called Bior.  
145  Ash Rober ts 
 In response, he reached out and grabbed my wrist, holding it 
tightly enough t o elicit a yelp. "No, but your father does."  
Realization of what he planned hit me, and I fought against his 
grasp.  
"Are we good, Bior?" Lewon asked, without looking at me.  
Bior stood, pulling me with him. "Yes, this will be sufficient to 
relieve your debt s. Should Roland expect you at the runecube table 
next weekend?"  
Lewon pushed his way past Bior’s companion. "Of course. It will 
be nice to see Roland owing me money for a change."  
"Lewon," I hissed. "Don’t do this."  
"It’s not personal, Kalia." Lewon said,  though I noticed wouldn’t 
look me in the eye. "It’s just business."  
And then he turned and left the restaurant without looking back.  

 
 
 
The unnamed Nightblood took my left arm and the two leeches 
dragged me towa rds the exit. I tried to search for the proprietor, but 
he was conspicuously absent.  
Outside, a light mist coated everything, and a wolf cowered under 
a nearby tree, wrapped in silver chains. It wasn’t just any wolf, 
judging by the size. A wolf that big ha d to be a wolf -shifter.  
The Nightbloods led me to the animal and pushed me over its 
back. They untied the end of the chain from the tree and wrapped it 
around my wrists. Bior prodded the poor creature and it walked into 
the woods on some unseen trail, the Nightbloods flanking us on each 
side. 
With each step the wolf -shifter took, the chains tugged at my 
wrists. Within a mile, the skin had been rubbed raw and my blood 
matted the animal’s fur. But I barely felt the pain. It was nothing 
compared to how badly m y heart hurt. I had trusted Lewon. I had 
actually thought he liked me. How could I have been such a fool 
again? First there had been Etlin, who had at least dumped me, 
instead of selling me to pay his debts. And now this. Did I have 
absolutely no sense of who people really were? Was I that blind and 
naive? Maybe Esgeril was right, and I was just a person who wanted 
someone else to take care of me. Well, there was no one to take care 
of me now. I was going to have to get out of this on my own. Which 
wouldn’t  be easy chained to the back of a wolf with only a view of 
the ground.  
"You should let me go know." I said with more bravery than I felt, 
craning my neck to see Bior. "It will go poorly for you otherwise,"  
Royal Dragoneer   148 
 "Oh, yeah?  Why is that?" Bior laughed. "Your father won’t risk 
you getting hurt. He will pay the ransom."  
I wasn’t as sure of that as he was, but admitting it wouldn’t help 
my cause. I knew Farean could hear me from a distance. When the 
Goblins had ambushed Lewon an d I on the road back to the swine 
farm, she’d flown to my rescue. But that had only been a few miles 
distance. Suzu was at least twenty miles from camp. Maybe more. 
"Farean,  I need you." I called earnestly in my head. " I’m in trouble.  Come  
help me. "Farean  was the one creature in this world I knew I could 
trust without fail. Not because I needed her, but because we needed 
each other. We had that unbreakable bond the Dragoneeers were 
always going on about.  
"You do know I’m a Dragoneer, right?" I told my capt ors. "My 
dragon will find me."  
"Oh, good," Bior said cheerily. The other one wasn’t much of a 
talker, it seemed. "Roland always has use for more dragons."  
"She wouldn’t follow him, because I won’t."  
"Roland will have no reason to keep you after the ransom is paid. 
He’ll find your dragon a rider more amenable to our cause."  
"That’s not possible," I reminded him "A dragon is bonded for 
life." 
"Is that what the Dragoneers told you?" He gave a full belly laugh. 
"You’re more naive than I thought, if you believe that."  
"What are you talking about?" I cried. "Can the dragon bond be 
broken?"  
"There is a witch, Ascatie," Bior said. "She lives in the North 
where wild dragons still roam. It is said she can perform the rite. This 
is what will be done to you and your dra gon if you call it here to 
rescue you."  
"No," I whispered. Meanwhile I was frantically telling Farean in 
my head. " Farean, " "listen to me." "Don’t  come. It isn’t safe for you. Stay 
away.  That’s  an order. " 
149  Ash Rober ts 
 I felt —something —this time. A sensation just on th e cusp of my 
awareness. Anger. No, fear and rage. Farean was getting closer. She 
was coming after me.  
In a panic, I squirmed against my bonds, grinding my injured 
wrists into the wolf’s shoulder.  
It growled, low in its throat, the vibration breaking the st ill of the 
night.  
"Quiet, Meril," Bior hissed at it. "Roland won’t release your pups 
if you get us caught."  
Meril whimpered and then became quiet. She picked up her pace, 
no doubt eager to be relieved of her load and returned to her family. 
The two Nightbl oods kept up easily, appearing for all the world as if 
the wolf’s trot was slowing them down. Maybe my parents would pay 
the ransom that Roland would demand. I had no idea.  
But I had to keep Farean away. Or at least warn her what to 
expect and not to come flying into a trap. " Farean ", I called again. 
"They know you’re  coming.  It’s a trap." "Be on guard.  Think  before you act." I 
kept trying to contact her as we crossed mile after nameless mile.  
The Nightbloods seemed agitated by our slow progress and 
conferr ed between themselves as the moons rose in the sky. "This is 
taking too long," Bior told his companion. "The wolf is weary, and 
the girl is heavy. I can move faster on my own and will go on ahead 
to tell Roland we have a prize." He tugged at the chain for good 
measure, and Meril and I both cried out in pain. Then, faster than I 
could blink, he disappeared into the night. The other Nightblood led 
the way in silence. He had not said a word since he’d sat down next 
to that traitorous Lewon, hours before.  
The d ragon moon set and then Kingsmoon, leaving just the red 
blood moon illuminating the path. I wasn’t superstitious but, given 
how the night was going, I shivered at the ill omen a lone blood 
moon conveyed.  
Despite the pain in my arms and back, my exhaustion eventually 
overtook me. I woke to see dawn peaking over the horizon as my 
Nightblood captor unwound my chains and pulled me from the back 
Royal Dragoneer   150 
 of Meril. A small stone home sat alone in the woods, the dawn -facing 
windows shut tight. No smoke rose from the chimne y. At first, I 
thought that meant the building was unoccupied, but then I realized 
that Nightbloods needed no fire for warmth or food.  
Bior opened the door at our arrival and waved us in, the silent 
Nightblood dragging me by my arm and Meril by her chains.  The 
door shut loudly behind us, and I turned to see him turn several large 
bolts as big around as my arm. A third Nightblood, portly by their 
standards, sat at an oak table counting stacks of money.  
"Did my father pay the ransom?" I asked hopefully. Meanw hile, 
Bior stuffed Meril into a cage that looked much too small for her. 
The other one pushed me roughly into a chair and wrapped me in a 
rope almost faster than I could see.  
"Why, my dear," replied the Nightblood who must be Roland, 
"this is just what my runecube clubs brought in last night. It’s not a 
tenth of what I will demand from your father." The Nightblood 
Change made it difficult to tell, but his head seemed not quite right 
and his skin had a greyer tone than the alabaster of his companions.  
"You’r e a Goblin," I gasped in realization.  
"I’m a Nightblood!" He brought his fist down on the table, 
cracking the wood in half. The gold and silver coins scattered across 
the room. A silver piece rolled into Meril’s cage. She jumped when it 
touched her, sending her into the bars, cowering and cringing away 
from it.  
"Never mention what a Nightblood was before," Roland said, 
coming around the table and grabbing me by the chin with his cold 
hand. "It is the rudest possible insult to our kind, and I’ve killed  
others for much less." He let go of my chin but kept his face close to 
mine. "Just be thankful you are worth so much, or you’d already be 
dead." His breath smelled of blood, warm and metallic. "Bior, pick 
up this mess." He waved his hand at the money on t he floor. "The 
sun is up, and I must go and rest."  
He left through a door in the back, though I got no details of the 
room or space beyond. It was too dark.  
151  Ash Rober ts 
 Bior and the other Nightblood, whose name I still didn’t know, 
stooped down and started picking up the money. The nameless one 
reached for the coin in Meril’s cage, and she snapped at him, earning 
her cage an angry kick. The Nightblood’s strength sent it rolling. She 
shrieked as she tumbled with it, and then lay there whimpering, but 
not moving, when it  stopped.  
These Nightbloods had no mercy. What would they do to Farean 
if she came? What would they do to me if she didn’t?  
Bior and his companion finished putting the scattered money back 
on the table. When they were done, the silent one cocked his head 
and went to the small window. He peered through it and grabbed a 
crossbow and some bolts hanging from a hook on the wall. He went 
back to the window, crouching down.  
Bior followed suit, grabbing another weapon from the wall. He 
took a position at a slit on the other side of the door.  
"Who is out there?" I asked them. Was it my father’s men or my 
dragon? " Farean,  if you’re  here, it’s a trap. The house is full of Nightbloods,  
and they have crossbows.  Be careful. " 
"Be quiet!" Bior barked.  
I obeyed, straining to  sense Farean’s presence or her thoughts, but 
I got nothing.  
Bior’s companion took aim with his bow and fired.  
"Careful," Bior warned him. "We don’t know how many there. 
Conserve our ammunition. Wait until you can see them clearly."  
"I thaw moothement," th e other Nightblood lisped.  
That was why he hadn’t spoken. I had heard of such things before, 
stories the maids told each other at night. In the human kingdom of 
Facal, they cut out the tongues of their remedial criminals, those who 
had committed an offense  not quite worthy of the death penalty. And 
when Nightbloods Changed, their bodies gained the ability to 
regenerate, even parts that had previously been removed. It was said 
the blood they drank did that. But that regeneration could take some 
time. This Ni ghtblood must be so young his tongue hadn’t yet 
completely grown back.  
Royal Dragoneer   152 
 Bior focused on the slit before him, attempting to find what had 
roused the other’s attention. I couldn’t see what they were seeing, but 
they both suddenly started shooting frantically,  barely taking the time 
to aim before firing.  
I heard a sound, maybe a growl or the beating of wings.  
Bior dropped his crossbow and retreated to the room where 
Roland had retired.  
The other Nightblood kept firing.  
Mortar dust and crumbled stone started rai ning down from the 
ceiling, and I ducked under Roland’s money table for protection.  
A hole opened up in the roof as more stone and debris came 
crashing down.  
Farean snaked her head through the hole and grabbed the lisping 
Nightblood in her jaws, shaking hi m back and forth before releasing 
him into the far wall.  
He slumped to the floor and didn’t move.  
"I’m here", Farean said. " And that man tasted  nasty. " 
 
 
 
"Farean!"  I cried, scanning as much of her as I could through the 
hole in the ceiling. I didn’t see any bolts sticking out of her hide. She 
was safe. I was safe.  
"Of course,  you’re  safe." Farean said, so confident in herself" . I would  
never let anyone  harm you. Oh, and I brought  the boss man." 
Colonel Authand entered the home through the door, rather than 
the dragon -sized hole in roof. He looked me over with a faint nod of 
his head, assessing the battle damage nonchalantly as if he’d done it a 
thousand times before.  Which he probably had.  
He seemed content that I was safe and rushed for the rear door, 
his short sword drawn in front of him. He threw it open, revealing a 
dark room with an open door on its back wall, open to the dim 
woods beyond. He searched the now emp ty room and came back 
into the main one just as two other Dragoneers came in the front 
door.  
"The outside is secure, sir," one of them said. Three vertical bars 
under his Dragon pin indicated he was in his third and final year of 
training. His sandy brown hair was trimmed close to his head, and his 
demeanor seemed closer to that of my father’s guards than what I 
was used to in the Dragoneers.  
"Well, they escaped out the back," Authand said. "Search again; 
they must have a secret passage somewhere. Farean, h ave a fly 
around and see if you notice anything from the air."  
"Yes, sir. "My dragon said like an obedient soldier, as she flapped 
her wings and took off from the roof, sending dust billowing down 
into the room.  
Royal Dragoneer   154 
 When the air had cleared, Authand sheathed his sword and pulled 
a small dagger from his belt. The other two Dragoneers back outside 
and headed in different directions. Authand cut through the ropes 
that bound me. I rubbed my bleeding wrists, wincing at the raw flesh.  
I knelt next to Meril’s cage. " We need to let her out. She is a 
prisoner here too."  
"She’s a Wolf -shifter, girl. And a badly treated one at that. Be 
careful she doesn’t bite the hand that feeds her."  
I ignored his warning, and opened the door to her cage, but Meril 
cringed at the back. I crawled halfway in. "It’s okay, we’re going to 
help you." I took another crawling move forward, and she snapped at 
me. I jumped back.  
"If you bite her, I’ll bite you, "I heard Farean say. But she wasn’t 
talking to me. She was talking to Meril, who cocked  her head and 
looked up through the hole in the roof, trembling.  
I use the distraction to lunge forward and pull the chain off her. 
Her demeanor changed immediately. She took a step towards me, but 
it did not seem threatening. I backed out of the cage, and  she 
followed me into the room. Once clear, she began to shift.  
Her snout pulled into her face and her legs straightened and 
lengthened. Fur dissolved into golden brown skin. Within moments, 
she returned to the form of a woman around thirty and attempted t o 
cover her nakedness with her arms.  
Authand went into the back room and returned with breaches and 
a coat that were both several sizes too large for her. He tossed them 
to her and turned away. She slipped into the pants, but they were so 
large that she co uld not keep them up. I gave her a length of the rope 
that had bound me, and she cinched it around her waist, then slid on 
the coat.  
She looked lost in it, but she tapped on the Colonel’s shoulder. 
"Thank you," she said when he turned. She eyed the corpse of the 
lisping Nightblood lying against the wall and turned her attention to 
me. "And thank you. They’ve kept me in wolf form for months, 
155  Ash Rober ts 
 doing their bidding. But I must find them. They still have my pups 
hidden somewhere. I have to find them."  
Authand nod ded. "The other two Dragoneers will stay behind and 
help you."  
She shook her head. "I appreciate the offer, but I can cover more 
ground on my own. And the Nightbloods will stay hidden as long as 
they can see or smell dragons."  
"Well, if there is anything w e can do," Authand said, "you can find 
us at Tulta to the East."  
"I will remember both of you," she said, bowing and turning 
toward the door, her nose sniffing the air. And then she was gone, 
springing into the woods like she was still in wolf form.  
"I didn’t find the other stinky  men", Farean said, sticking her huge head 
in the doorway.  
"It’s okay," I told her. " You saved my life today.  I’m so proud  of you." 
"And she should have never had to," Authand said, turning to me 
angrily. "What were you thinking, l eaving camp again without 
permission while you were still under punishment from the last time. 
Get on your dragon right now, a dragon you most certainly don’t 
deserve, and go straight back to camp, or I’ll sever the two of you 
myself."  
So, it could be done. Not that I ever wanted it to be. But why had 
everyone lied to me about everything?  
"What are you waiting for?" Authand barked.  
"I don’t have her harness," I sputtered.  
He marched outside, and I followed. He reached into a bag 
strapped to his dragon K orth’s back and retrieved Farean’s harness. 
"Lewon could not find your leathers," he said, handing it to me.  
"Lewon?" I asked, my voice rising. "Lewon knows exactly where 
my leathers are. They’re with his at the Pavilion in Suzu. Right where 
he left me." M y fists clenched, and Farean butted me with her snout, 
letting out a low growl.  
"Don’t try to blame this on him. He’s been at the camp since you 
disappeared," Authand said, reaching into a pouch on Korth’s side 
Royal Dragoneer   156 
 and pulling out a pair of leathers I recogniz ed as Esgeril’s. They 
wouldn’t fit, but they’d be close enough to get me home.  
I put them on, Farean fawning over me and making it harder. Her 
thoughts were an incoherent jumble. Most strongly, she seemed 
happy that I was safe, angry that I’d been captured , and sad that I’d 
abandoned her. This last one shocked me. " I didn’t  abandon  you. "I 
assured her" . I thought  I was going on a date. But it was a trap. Lewon  lied 
and turned  me over to the stinky  men. And now he’s back at camp pretending  he 
had nothing  to do with it." 
"Bad Lewon,  "she said. " I warned  you he doesn’t  smell right." 
"I know.  I should  have listened  to you. I’m sorry. "I stroked her snout 
with one hand, using her for balance as I pulled the leggings on, 
awkwardly, over my dress, then attached mys elf to the harness. If it 
was my word against Lewon’s concerning what had happened, who 
would people believe? It looked like Authand already believed 
Lewon. That wasn’t a good sign.  
Even now, Authand was standing next to Korth, his arms crossed 
and his foo t tapping impatiently. "You will follow me back," he said. 
"If you deviate from our flight path at all, Korth will force you to the 
ground and you will walk back to the camp. Is that clear?"  
I nodded and gulped.  
He mounted Korth, and I mounted Farean, hook ing in and 
following them into the sky. There was no conversation on the flight 
back.  
The sun reached its zenith as we landed. My stomach gurgled as 
the sounds and smells of the noon meal wafted from the mess hall. I 
hadn’t eaten for a long time and looked  longingly in that direction; 
but Authand pointed at me with his hook and said, "My office. 
Now."  
I made my best time ever removing Farean’s harness and trotted 
after him. Walking was awkward with my gown bunched up under 
the leggings. Every time I fell be hind, he stopped and glared until I 
caught up. At his office, the aide held the door open. As soon as I 
passed through, he left, closing the door behind us.  
157  Ash Rober ts 
 I’d been warned to avoid Authand’s wrath, but I seemed incapable 
of doing so. In fact, I appeared t o be a wrath -magnet. The Colonel 
waited until I entered his office and then slammed the door with 
enough force to shake the room.  
"What were you thinking?" He thundered, pacing the room in 
front of me. "I’ve seen a lot of new Dragoneers make very stupid an d 
dangerous mistakes, but this has got to take the cake. What did you 
do to attract the attention of someone as dangerous as Roland? 
You’re not playing runecubes, are you?"  
"No," I blurted. Without meaning to, I spread my arms wide, 
nearly sending my hand into his chest. "It was Lewon. He tricked 
me." 
"He tricked you into running off by yourself?"  
"He took me to Suzu for dinner. He said we had your 
permission."  
"Do you think I’m stupid?" That terrible claw thunked into the 
desk as he passed it. "Nobody had permission to leave until we were 
forced to go off on a wild dragon -chase looking for you. Lewon led 
the search until we found Farean flying by herself. Do you have any 
idea how dangerous these woods are for a lost young dragon right 
now?"  
"But—I—" I wante d to protest that Lewon had lied to him —that 
he’d sold me off without a thought for my well -being. But the words 
just wouldn’t come. I’d struggled all night with the fact that I’d 
poured my heart out to Lewon, and he used that very fact in a plan to 
barter  me for his illegal debts. Then he’d pretended to look for me —
to be the caring hero who’d lost the girl he was falling for. That was a 
level of deviousness that both scared and startled me. Lewon would 
not go down without a fight. If I accused him, I might  very well lose 
that battle. Badly. I was not anyone’s favorite at training camp, and 
he clearly was. Obviously, I would have to play this differently, like 
one of my father’s diplomatic negotiations. I was the little kingdom 
with no army. That meant I had  to bide my time and find something 
to bargain with.  
Royal Dragoneer   158 
 So, I hung my head as Authand continued his tirade, but I was no 
longer listening. I was pondering a plan —a way to get my revenge on 
Lewon that he would never see coming. I would show Authand, and 
Floria n, and Esgeril, and all the other Dragoneers what I was really 
made of. I was tired of having one foot in princess world, and one in 
Dragoneer world. If I wanted this life, I was going to have to grab it 
for myself. No one was going to hand it to me.  
"This  is your last chance, Kalia." Authand said, winding down. "If 
you’re caught leaving this camp again without permission, it will be 
the Dragon Caves for you."  
I gulped. The threat had more weight now. I’d only known it was 
a prison before. But from my class es I’d learned the guards were only 
there to prevent the criminals from escaping. There were no guards 
or rules inside the Caves.  
"You should also be aware that Roland never releases his 
hostages," Authand added. "He collects the ransom and kills them. 
And us rescuing you is going to be very bad for his reputation. His 
spies will be on the lookout for you. If you’re ever allowed to l eave 
camp grounds again, which I highly doubt, your life will be in 
constant danger. You will never be safe again because of your 
foolishness last night. Now, leave my sight."  
I didn’t make him repeat himself. The anteroom was still empty of 
the Colonel’s aide and I let myself out. I made my way towards the 
cafeteria. Service would have ended by now, but there might still be 
some food out.  
As I walked down the path, I saw Lewon in the distance, standing 
outside with Florian and her usual crew, waiting for m e, their eyes 
full of hate and malic e. 
 
 
 
I stopped in my tracks, evaluating the situation.  
If I turned and ran, they’d come after my like Nightbloods after a 
bleeding man.  
If I went forward, I’d have to say or do something to get past 
them.  
Either option was bad, but I stepped forward, facing them head -
on. 
I saw the surprise in their eyes when I kept coming. Good. Let 
them be the ones surprised for a change.  
As I got close to the group, they parted, glaring a t me. Lewon was 
there, right on the path. I had to brush his arm to get past and as I 
did I said, "Can’t get rid of me that easily."  
He took a step back, bumping into Florian behind him. I could see 
it in his eyes. He’d never expected me to make it back al ive. And on 
the off chance I did, he’d counted on me crying and accusing him. If 
I’d made a fool of myself, no one would have believed a word I said, 
and he’d have looked that much better for it.  
"And Roland still wants his debt paid," I whispered so no on e else 
could hear. "He’ll be coming for you." I had no idea if that were true, 
but I hoped it was.  
"What’s all the whispering about?" Someone near the rear of the 
pack demanded. "We all want to know what you did this time, 
Princess." He wasn’t using my tit le to be polite.  
"I’ll tell you what she did," Lewon said, smirking at me. "During 
our sword practice, she told me she loved me. Completely out of the 
Royal Dragoneer   160 
 blue. Like I would have anything to do with a court leech who’s lived 
her entire life off of the sweat of  others. Begged me to run away with 
her. And when I rejected her she ran off by herself, crying like a 
baby, and the Colonel had to go chasing after her."  
The others laughed, and Lewon grinned a sick twisted smile.  
"It’s true," I said, smiling back. "I tho ught I loved him, but then I 
realized how small his dragon is. And you know what they say about 
a man’s dragon matching the size of his…"  
Several people laughed despite themselves, and Lewon whirled 
toward them, glaring.  
Meanwhile, I slipped past and into the cafeteria, but I’d lost my 
appetite.  
I waited a few minutes, watching the crowd outside the door 
disperse, then made my way to the barracks as the sky darkened and 
thunder rolled in the distance. Maybe Lewon would get stuck by 
lightning. " Hey, a girl could hope." 
As I walked down the hall toward my room, I saw Esgeril coming 
out of hers. "Esgeril, I —" 
"I told you not to go." Anger rippled through her body, causing 
her to shake. "I warned you and look what happened."  
"Hey." In the past twenty -four hours,  I had been tricked, sold, 
bound, rescued, scolded, threatened, and verbally attacked. I refused 
to be pushed around any further. "You know what? I thought you 
were my friend. But you’re just like everyone else here." I stepped 
around her and stomped to my  room, slamming the door behind me.  
 
 
 
For weeks after the Lewon incident, I kept my head down and did 
my work. I attended all my classes, accepted my accumulated 
punishments, followed every rule, and tried as hard as I could to stay 
out of Authand’s office. That didn’t mean anyone liked me for it. 
They didn’t. If anything, it made Lewon, Florian, and their gang more 
vicious. They wanted me to mess up. They always had. Even Esgeril 
stayed clear of me, and I d idn’t blame her. Association with me 
would have just put her in the line of fire.  
The only friend I had left was Farean. Stretching the limits of our 
bond had brought us closer together. I trusted her in ways I hadn’t 
realized were possible. She no longer had to seek out my touch. I 
freely gave it. I might never forgive the Orcs or the dragon that killed 
my grandfather. But I no longer blamed Farean for an event that 
happened before she hatched.  
I was determined to keep my nose clean and become the best 
damn Dragoneer anyone had ever seen. I'd qualify for the Dragon 
Run and earn the respect I was due that way.  
The Dragon Moon had eclipsed the Kingsmoon once more. My 
room in the girls' barracks was positioned so they both shone in my 
window. On those nights, I couldn't get any sleep due to their glare. 
It was hard to believe I’d been training for half a year, but the 
monotony was getting to me, and I felt so restless. Technically, going 
for a walk after curfew was against the rules. But I yearned for time 
to m yself. So, I waited a few hours for the rest of the camp to settle 
into slumber and slipped my boots onto my feet.  
Royal Dragoneer   162 
 Glancing out the door, the coast was clear, and I tiptoed down the 
hall. I continued to the stairwell. Two steps down, I heard a door 
open.  
"Who’s there?" Florian’s groggy voice called out. I didn’t wait for 
her discover me. I took the stairs three at a time down to the ground 
floor and slipped quietly out the door. I dove into a shrub and lay on 
the damp earth with juniper scratching at my nec k. 
I waited there, catching my breath, but no one came after me. 
Florian must have just gone back to bed, thankfully.  
A candle illuminated the heads of Florian and a third year who 
proctored our hall. "I heard somebody in the stairs. They must be out 
here, " Florian explained. "I bet it was that ‘I’m better than everyone’ 
princess."  
The proctor shook her head in the dim flame. "Well, there’s 
nobody out here now. Go back to bed. I’ll stand a watch to catch 
them when they try to sneak back in."  
"What if it was  a boy sneaking back out after invading our 
barracks?" Florian stomped her foot, her slipper landing inches from 
my hand. I jerked it back instinctively, and the juniper shook.  
They noticed the motion and turned towards the shrub. I stayed as 
still as poss ible and the proctor turned back to Florian, apparently 
convinced it had been an animal. "I thought you said it was Kalia. 
Don’t waste my time making up stories. Go to bed, Florian, before I 
make you stand the watch by yourself."  
She mumbled something inau dible and shuffled back inside. The 
proctor held the candle up and peered into the darkness before 
returning inside. I waited several more minutes before crawling back 
out into the open.  
I didn't want to risk being seen again, so I made my way to the 
boath ouse. The sentries on night duty rarely ever looked in the 
direction of the lake, because Goblins despised water and did 
everything they could to avoid it. Any eyes searching for threats 
tonight would be pointed the other direction. There was already a 
canoe missing, which was odd. Maybe some other cadet had the 
163  Ash Rober ts 
 same idea as me for an evening of alone time. Well, if they had, it 
wasn't like they'd be in a position to report me.  
I slid a canoe into the water and paddled to the beach where 
Lewon and I had tra ined. I hadn't been back since that night. 
Thoughts of sharpening the practice sword and using it against him 
came to me, but I shook my head to clear my mind and set off into 
the woods.  
I heard the crack of a branch in the trees. But it was probably just 
a squirrel. Since Farean had hatched, all my senses had become 
keener. I wanted to ask Esgeril if that was normal or another one of 
my freak abilities. But we had to be on speaking terms for that.  
But squirrels didn't talk and I could hear voices as well. They were 
low and still far off, but I wasn't alone out here. I recalled Authand's 
warning about Roland. Was he that thirsty for revenge that he'd risk 
coming to the camp? I inched closer; I needed to know what I was 
up against.  
"Does he think I'd really d ouble cross him like that?" Lewon said 
in an agitated whisper. "She called her dragon. How was I supposed 
to know she could do that? We were over ten leagues away. I can 
only reach Calen from three."  
"You cost Roland his prize. And he always collects. If n ot the girl, 
then you," Bior said.  
"But no one would pay a ransom for me."  
"Roland will think of a use for you." From my vantage point, I 
could see Bior's fangs gleam in the moonlight.  
If Bior was here, there would be other Nightbloods about.  
That was the last thought I had before the flash of pain at the back 
of my head and everything went dark.  
I woke slowly. My head throbbed and acrid smoke wafted in my 
face carried by a light breeze. I opened my eyes to find myself loosely 
tied to a huge boulder.  
As my vision adjusted to the dim light of the fire, I saw Roland 
sitting in an ornate wooden chair. It seemed out of place surrounded 
by the crude treatments of a military unit in the field behind him, but 
Royal Dragoneer   164 
 Roland did have certain flair. He stared at me, ob viously aware I had 
returned to consciousness.  
"So, the Princess is the first to wake," he said, holding out his 
hand to Bior who stood to his right. "Bior, you owe me ten gold 
coins. I told you she was the tough one. The boy is still drooling in 
his sleep ." 
"The boy? What  boy?" I rolled my aching head gently to the right, 
following Bior’s glaring glance, and found myself face -to-face with 
Lewon. We were tied to the same tree. His shoulder was touching 
mine, and his once handsome face was a dark swollen bru ise. Slowly, 
my foggy brain put two -and-two together. They hadn’t just taken me 
from training camp. They’d taken Lewon, too.  
"I hit him much harder than Pani hit her," Bior said, handing a 
fistful of coins to his boss.  
"Well, wake him up then," Roland comm anded. "Douse him with 
a bucket of water or something. I don’t want to have to explain all 
my delectable plans for them twice."  
So, Bior fetched a bucket of water and poured it over Lewon’s 
head. Of course, it hit me too, waking me up even more.  
Lewon coug hed like he was drowning, his head lolling back and 
forth, his eyes rolling open and squinting against the glare of the 
firelight.  
"I would have come willingly, Roland," he sputtered. "You didn’t 
have to have your lapdog punch me in the face."  
"Not if you’ d known what I have planned," Roland said. "I 
wouldn't normally lower myself to such rough conditions as this, but 
you are worth it. Thanks to your betrayal," Roland pointed a long 
finger at me, "she escaped."  
"I told Bior, I had no part of that." Lewon sp at. "It’s not my fault 
you’re incompetent."  
Bior bared his fangs. "Let me drain him, boss."  
Roland waved him off. "As much as I'd like to be rid of the 
troublemaker, we need him alive for now. His fate will be that of the 
girl's. No one has escaped me befo re. It’s bad for business. Instead of 
165  Ash Rober ts 
 ransom, I have a more permanent solution for the two of you. I think 
I will turn you over to my brother."  
I blinked, not understanding, my headache making it even harder 
to think. A Goblin with graying hair came forwar d, out of the 
shadows. I did not know their military insignia well, but he seemed to 
be some sort of high ranking official. As he stepped nearer to Roland 
and into the firelight, I could see the family resemblance.  
"This is my younger brother, Ariz, low ge neral of the Goblin 
armies." Roland turned to Aziz. "My brother, I have brought you two 
dragons tonight."  
With Ariz standing next to him, Roland seemed almost humble. 
He kept his eyes down respectfully, as one might do in the presence 
of a noble. Roland bo wed to no king, but next to his sibling, he acted 
like a servant. Ariz, for his part stood with the relaxed confidence of 
someone who had spent a lifetime leading others. His face conveyed 
no love for his brother. To him, Roland was just another underling.  
"I imagine you expect extra payment for it," the Goblin general 
hissed.  
"Consider her a gift," Roland said. "  
"We're not family!" Ariz snapped. "You forsook your family to 
become this abomination." His hand swept over Roland's form.  
"Father didn't exactly  give me a choice, did he?" Roland' 
protested. "If my maker hadn't found me, I would be dead."  
"That would have been better," Aziz said, cold -heartedly. "Collect 
your money and leave us."  
Roland nodded. "The witch will be here within the hour." He got 
up, glancing at Bior who had stood silently beside his boss 
throughout the entire exchange. Then, they both melted into the 
shadows of the forest, taking Roland’s odd chair with them.  
Ariz approached the stone Lewon and I were bound to and 
examined me. "You ar e very valuable, Princess," he said, his breath 
wafting across my face. "And your beasts will provide much 
nourishment to my soldiers. But never fear. I will return you to your 
father. Well, part of you, at least."  
Royal Dragoneer   166 
 I shivered at his threat. Then I remember ed my years of training in 
Kastea. Squaring my shoulders as much as the rope allowed, I looked 
him in the eye. "I'm afraid you’ve wasted your time. Our dragons 
aren’t with us. Farean and Calen are still safe back at camp."  
Ariz laughed,  a hoarse, guttural sound that reminded me of a dying 
animal. "They will come," he said. "You are too precious to them, 
because of that slavery you have been forced into by your false god. 
We seek merely to free you. The world will thank us one day for 
ridding you of those vile creatures."  
"If you live off the meat of gross animals," I said. "It's a surprise 
you didn’t succumb to cannibalism ages ago."  
Lewon snorted out a laugh.  
Ariz maintained a calm facade, but his eyes burned with rage. "I 
hear the witch 's spell is painful." The corners of his lips twitched, like 
he was trying to smile but couldn't remember how. "I wish I could 
watch, but a General's work is never done."  
After he walked away into the darkness, I craned my head towards 
Lewon. "What's he ta lking about?"  
The color was gone from his face. "There are stories. Oh, gods, I 
thought they were just stories. There are witches to the north. 
Outcasts from the seven kingdoms who live among the feral dragons 
in the mountains. They're said to train in the  old magics. Perversions 
of the things we used to be able to do. They say they have a spell to 
break the bond between dragon and rider."  
"But Authand said…" The rest of my protest died on my lips. It 
was hard to imagine six months ago that I’d wanted the v ery thing 
Lewon was talking about. Now, the thought repulsed me.  
"He probably doesn't believe the stories. They're things whispered 
in the dark, designed to scare children. Besides, if it is true, it doesn't 
end well for the dragon. It's like they're dead inside. And the rider 
doesn't fare much better."  
I shivered. "Why would Ariz bother with it then? Why not just kill 
us?" 
167  Ash Rober ts 
 Lewon shook his head. "I think he thinks he is saving us from the 
dragons, like they control us instead of the other way round."  
"Farea n, can you hear me? Don’t  come for me. It’s too dangerous.  Just get 
Authand. "Through our connection, I got nothing but a faint sensation 
of rushing wind. She must be sleeping. She hadn’t heard me, but it 
also meant that she was safe.  
Beside me, lines creas ed Lewon’s forehead. "Calen’s not answering 
me. We should still be in range. I don’t think they took us that far."  
A Goblin soldier approached us carrying an earthen cup. He 
pressed it to my lips. He was a full head shorter than me and had to 
raise it over  his head to reach. "Drink."  
The thin, grey liquid bubbled as if boiling, but gave off no heat. It 
smelled like a wine that had gone rancid in the skin. I pursed my lips 
against it, knowing that whatever it was, it was nothing good.  
Lewon kicked at him. Ou r feet had been tied, but apparently he’d 
worked his foot out of his boot. "Get that away from us, greyskin."  
The kick jostled the soldier, but he didn’t spill the drink. He pulled 
a dagger from his belt andpressed it against my right wrist, 
threatening to  sever my hand. He probably assumed it was my lesser 
one. "The General wantsss you alive, but you don’t have to be in one 
piece."  
I gulped and opened my mouth. He forced the liquid down; it 
tasted worse than it smelled. "What was that?"  
"It will confuse yo ur dragons and make them easier to capture."  
I whimpered. Already, my mind felt fuzzy. Farean was rousing, but 
her thoughts didn’t make sense. "Why am I the only one who has to 
drink it?"  
Lewon shot me a dirty look. Calling attention to a potential 
advanta ge wasn’t the best plan.  
The soldier laughed, a wet, raspy sound. I’d cover my ears if I 
could move. "You both received a dose before you woke. His dragon 
is already here. Yours just needed more encouragement."  
A second soldier approached. "The witch is he re. The General 
wants the boy."  
Royal Dragoneer   168 
 With the dagger still in his hand, the first one cut the knot holding 
the ropes. I was still secured to the tree, but Lewon lunged forward.  
The second soldier wrapped the loose end of the rope around 
Lewon's neck. His eyes b ulged as it dug into his skin and cut off his 
air supply. The Goblin wrapped more rope around his wrists before 
letting the loop around his neck slacken. Lewon gasped in deep 
lungsful of air before the soldier kicked him. "It's time for you to 
meet your dr agon for the last time.  
They left me alone with my thoughts, which I directed at Farean 
through our now fuzzy connection. " Please  don't come. Just get Authand.  
It's too dangerous  for you."No coherent response came back, just a vague 
feeling of confusion and rage.  
The Goblins lit a fire in a nearby clearing that dwarfed the one I 
was in. On one side of it, they secured Lewon to another tree. 
Directly across the bonfire, Calen was laying on his  side with his legs 
bound together. Braided vines wrapped around his neck. They were 
attached to a similar loop being secured around Lewon's neck.  
Ariz was nowhere in sight, but a woman shrouded in dark robes 
directed the effort. I couldn't tell her race. The firelight cast weird 
shadows over her features, and a hood covered most of her head. 
This must be the witch who would sunder the bond between Farean 
and me, if she came here. This was the person who would rob me of 
the one thing I'd come to value more than my own life.  
The leaves rustled around me as if there was a wind, but I felt 
none. A sentry near the clearing let out a yell and then was gone. The 
scream alerted the others, and a company of Goblins stationed in the 
darkness came forward. A flash of blue shot out from the trees and 
grabbed another before disappearing again into the night sky.  
Archers shot bolts and arrows into the dark. One must have found 
its mark, because I heard Farean scream, both aloud and in my head. 
She dropped her captive. He landed not twenty feet from me with a 
crunch and didn't move.  
169  Ash Rober ts 
 I felt a hand on my shoulder and jumped as much as my bindings 
would allow. Meril crossed into my field of vision. "You saved me, 
and through that, my pups. I have come to repay that debt."  
I nodded but said nothing. She pulled at the ropes, but the knots 
were too tight. She shook her head and took a step back. Her hand 
folded before my eyes, her finger shortening and growing fur. The 
transformation looked extremely painful, but she stood there w ith 
only a grimace.  
She exhaled slowly. Sweat dotted her forehead and her skin was 
almost as pale as Roland’s had been. She flicked her wrist and a long 
serrated claw unfolded from her body. She returned her attention to 
me and used it on the rope, slicing  it like it was nothing. Then she 
used her normal human hand to pull the ruins of the rope away from 
me. 
Meril cocked her head at some sound that even my own keen 
hearing couldn't discern. A girl about five years old stumbled into the 
clearing wearing noth ing but a tattered blouse that reached her knees. 
Behind him came a boy of the same age. Instead of clothing, brown 
fur covered all of his body save his face.  
"Tem, Bere, I told you to wait for me in the den," Meril scolded 
with a growl in the back of her throat.  
"We were bored," the girl whined.  
"I told Tem to stay, but she wouldn't listen," the boy added.  
Meril was about to say something, but suddenly pounced at the 
boy instead. She transformed into a wolf mid leap. Bere's eyes 
widened and dropped to the ground as his body changed shape as 
well. Meril's fangs dug into the arm of a Goblin who'd snuck behind 
the boy with a raised knife. The Goblin screamed as she mauled him, 
slicing gashes across his neck he would not survive.  
But the noise had alerted the t roops and a contingent from the 
ones surrounding Farean broke off in our direction.  
"Save your dragon," Meril growled. Her words came through 
slurred by the shape of her wolf mouth. "I can't fight them alone."  
Royal Dragoneer   170 
 I looked back at Farean again. She was surroun ded by Goblins. 
Arrows hampered her wing and taking to the air seemed unlikely at 
this point. Farther off, the witch hurried to complete the preparations 
to rip the dragon bond from Lewon. I wouldn't be able to free him in 
time to be any help.  
I spied a ra ck of swords near the line of tents. I grabbed one and 
charged for the nearest beast. The blade's balance was different from 
the one I was used to, and my first couple of thrusts were awkward 
and missed their mark.  
Two turned from Farean, aiming their bows  at me. I thrust at the 
one on the right, slicing through the bow string and pulling the 
weapon from her hands while she fell back. I flung it towards her 
companion as he was notching his arrow. He flinched as the ruined 
bow clattered against his body.  
I used the distraction to attack. His leather armor held against my 
swing, but it knocked him to the ground. He dropped the bow and 
pulled out a dagger. While my sword had more reach, he undoubtedly 
had more training.  
Farean shrieked and I took my eye off my opponent to see an 
arrow lodged between her scales near the wing joint. Then the 
Goblin was upon me. I attempted to block, but steel bit into my 
unprotected forearm, carving a deep gash. I dropped the sword as 
blood welled to the surface.  
I went for the sw ord on the ground, but he was faster and kicked 
it away. He lunged again. I tried to roll but he leapt on top of me, 
pinning me to the mud. My mind flashed through defenses Lewon 
had taught me, but before I could implement one, the Goblin 
screamed and drop ped his weapon, falling on top of me.  
I grunted, pushing his writhing body to the side, only to reveal 
Tem with his bloody boot in her mouth. Gouges ran the length of his 
calf with bits of leather stuck in the wounds. She spit out the boot 
and ran off towa rds another unsuspecting Goblin, her tail wagging 
behind her.  
171  Ash Rober ts 
 I reached for my sword, but when I turned back around, the 
Goblin was gone. I looked up to see him dangling from Farean's 
jaws. A sickening crunch filled the air as she severed his body in half.  
She also had the she -Goblin pinned under her paw, which she 
lifted, eyeing the thing like a giant cat with a mouse. She lifted her 
foot, and the Goblin crab -walked backwards. Farean reared and 
landed with a thud pushing her claw through the Goblin’s chest . 
I struggled to keep the contents of my stomach intact.A tortured 
yelp from Lewon brought my attention back to his situation. The 
witch had finished the preparations and was now working on 
channeling  magic into the cable physically linking him to his dragon. 
Green sparks danced along its length.  
I glanced over at the witch. Her eyes were rolled back into her 
head. Unless she could magically sense me, she wouldn’t be able to 
stop me.  
I kept my head on a swivel as I made my way over to Lewon. 
Unless they had fled, Ariz and the first two soldiers we’d seen were 
still somewhere nearby.  
As I approached, however, rage filled me. Lewon had gotten me 
kidnapped, not just once, but twice. He’d led me on and ruin ed my 
relationship with Esgeril. Friendship, I corrected myself, coming to a 
stop just a few feet from where Lewon was bound. What I’d lost with 
Esgeril was a friendship, not a romance. Although, if I was being 
honest with myself, if she’d been a boy, I mi ght never have fallen for 
Lewon’s lies.  
"Help me," he croaked, returning me to the present.  
"Why should I?" I shot back. "All of this is your fault."  
"I know. I’m sorry." His breath came in short, jagged bursts. 
"None of this was supposed to happen. Roland  was just going to 
rough you up a little, just for show, until your father delivered the 
ransom. Nobody was supposed to get hurt."  
I stomped my foot."You’re just sorry because Roland thinks you 
double crossed him."  
Royal Dragoneer   172 
 "No, I am. Besides you need me. Do you th ink you can defeat a 
Goblin general on your own?"  
He had a point, but then again, Meril was still here. As if on cue, 
she trotted up to us. Blood matted her fur, but it didn’t appear to be 
hers. Behind her, Tem and Bere fought over a severed Goblin leg.  
"My debt is repaid," she said. "Now I must take my pups back to 
safety."  
I bowed before her. "Thank you. It is now I, who am in your 
debt." And then she and her pups still disappeared into the woods 
faster than my eyes could follow.  
I turned back to Lewon. " Okay, I guess I’m stuck with you." I 
sawed through his bindings with my sword until he was free. He 
yanked the braided vines off his head, which set off a burst in the 
bonfire.  
That got the witch’s attention. She yelled as if the pain Lewon had 
been feelin g had rebounded back on her. She looked around and saw 
that the Goblins who had been hired to guard her were gone. She 
clapped her hands and transformed into an eagle, flying away.  
Lewon crossed the clearing to where Calen still lay bound. 
Grabbing a dagge r from one of the fallen Goblins, he made quick 
work of freeing his dragon. He fashioned a crude harness not unlike 
the one I’d first worn with Farean, and climbed onto Calen’s back.  
"What are you doing? Ariz is still out there," I said.  
"That’s your probl em," he sneered. "I need to get back before 
Authand notices I’m missing."  
"If you leave me here, I’ll tell Authand that you’re working with 
Roland."  
He shook his head."If you make it back, you’d do best to keep 
your mouth shut. What’s Authand going to do i f he finds out you 
were sneaking out after curfew?"  
"So were you."  
"I’ll be getting back a bit later than expected, but my alibi is 
already secure." With that, they lifted off and disappeared into the 
night.  
173  Ash Rober ts 
 I shook my head. As much as I hated to admit it,  he was probably 
right. I’d broken curfew and if the Goblins were really this close to 
Tulta, they might have captured me without Lewon’s help. I crossed 
the muddy ground to Farean’s side as she licked the blood from her 
foot. My stomach somersaulted again  before I looked away.  
"The tree". I could sense her pointing in my mind and looked in 
that direction  
His lieutenant leapt from the tree onto her back, plunging another 
dagger in the gap between her scales. She screamed and reared, but 
he kept his hold on the blade buried between her shoulders. I 
climbed up her leg and faced him. He looked from me to the dagger 
as if trying to decide to continue with Ariz’s order or defend himself.  
I took a step forward and he yanked the blade from Farean’s hide. 
He stood, bringing it into a guard position. The other soldier 
dropped to Farean’s back as well, leaving Ariz alone in the tree.  
The second soldier dropped to a knee and slid his own dagger into 
a fresh wound. Farean snapped and thrashed, sending the lieutenant 
and me to our knees as we struggled to keep from being thrown.  
He rose to his feet, but I stayed low. He advanced while I faked a 
struggle to regain my balance. He took slow, shuffling steps across 
Farean’s back, but I held my position. He came within striking  
distance and shifted his grip on the hilt. I pushed up and knocked 
him clear off Farean’s back.  
She dove at the body and came up again with the Goblins leg in 
her mouth, her teeth streaked with red. The other Goblin’s eyes went 
wide, and I rushed him. He knelt for the dagger, but I reached him 
first. My momentum pushed us both off Farean’s back.  
I landed on top and punched him in the face. His head bounced 
against a rock, and I hit him again. Eyes rolled back in their sockets, 
but still I continued until h e laid there unmoving and my hands 
throbbed from the impact.  
I remembered Ariz and looked up but the coward was gone. I 
scanned the tree line in search of him, but Farean’s plaintive cries 
Royal Dragoneer   174 
 brought my attention back to her. I scrambled up her side and pulle d 
the blade from where is had been buried.  
It hurts,  she whimpered as I withdrew it. Along with the two 
gouges on her back, her wings were torn and bleeding. A scale was 
missing from her leg. I took in the damage she had taken while 
defending me. All thoug hts of leaving vanished and anger grew in my 
breast, that she’d been hurt for my sake.  
I went through and removed the bolts and arrows that had lodged 
between scales. Her wings were in even worse shape than I had 
previously believed. Farean would not fly a gain tonight, if she ever 
reached the air again. I placed my body against hers, my hands warm 
where they touched her. I looked again, and they glowed with soft 
light. I pressed them against a hole in her wing.  
The wound glowed with the same light from my h ands. They grew 
warm, even painful, but I continued until I saw the edges knit 
themselves back together. My body grew warm and steadily weaker as 
the life energy was sucked from me.  
I pulled away and the hole was gone, replaced by translucent blue 
skin tha t covered her wings. I did this on the next wound, and the 
one after, taking my time on each on. "Is that better?" The glow 
faded from my hands, and I rubbed her neck ridge.  
My stomach  hurts"." She rubbed at her belly with a hind leg for 
effect. I rushed o ver to feel for myself, although I had no clue what I 
was actually looking for. I think I ate something  rotten.  
I swatted her rump for the bad joke but laughed in spite of myself. 
I looked at the sky. The Kingsmoon was in danger of setting now. 
Soon the su n would poke above the horizon and reveal our absence 
to the other Dragoneers.  
Now that Farean had healed enough to fly, I needed to figure out 
how to secure myself. I had my half of the harness, but that didn’t do 
much good when Farean’s half lay safely t ucked in its storage box 
back at camp. The remainder of the ropes wouldn’t provide enough 
cordage. I scanned the meager tents and found a likely target. Taking 
care to not run afoul of the stakes, I picked my way across the camp 
175  Ash Rober ts 
 to it. Pulling my Goblin bl ade in front of me, I pulled the flap aside 
and looked in.  
No foes waited inside, but it wasn’t empty. As I’d suspected, their 
supplies lay stacked in packs. I tried hefting one, barely clearing the 
ground. While the elves towered over the vile creatures, they had the 
superior strength. I lowered the pack again and instead sifted through 
the contents. Mostly the packs contained rations of vile meats 
wrapped in oilcloth, but in a side pouch, I found a length of sturdy 
looking rope.  
I ran back to Farean and c oiled it around her chest, securing it 
with the knots I’d been learning at the camp. I tied loops at the ends 
and triple knotted them to be sure. Climbing to my spot on her back, 
I clipped into these loops and gave them a tentative pull. I tracked 
the King smoon once more; no more than an hour remained until 
dawn and even less by the tower’s standards.  
"Go," I urged her, and she leapt into the air. Up in the sky, the 
first strands of pink light of predawn glowed over the horizon. I 
urged her faster, but the sky lightened faster than we could fly.  
A mile from camp, Farean dove back into the trees. It was darker 
there, and I could barely make out the ends of her wings, but she 
deftly swerved through the dense foliage until she cleared it at the 
lake. 
The tower would read dawn in minutes now. We flew low to avoid 
detection, the pale blue of her scales being masked by the dark water. 
I could feel the cool air steaming from the surface, and I pulled my 
feet up unconsciously to keep them from getting wet.  
We cleared  the lake and continued just above the ground, eddies 
of dust swirling around us with each powerful flap. She didn’t begin 
slowing until almost upon the stable wall. The opening wouldn’t 
allow her full wingspan and she tucked them in. We cleared the 
openin g by inches and inside the room that no longer seemed so 
cavernous, she spread out again and beat in reverse to slow down 
while grabbing at the ground.  
Royal Dragoneer   176 
 Her momentum stopped, and I lurched forward but my knots 
held. The morning horn sounded; I couldn’t make  it back to the 
barracks now. Instead, I untied the rope and shoved it in my pack 
before crawling into the crook over her foreleg. Her breathing 
labored but slowed as I pressed against her. My own breath was 
ragged as well. What would they do when they fou nd me here? There 
was nothing I could do and leaving would only make my discovery 
more suspicious.  
Farean began snoring. The exertions and battles of the day were 
over, and dragons need their rest. Her sleep affected me as well. I 
struggled for several min utes, but the siren song of slumber soon 
overtook me.  
 
 
 
Farean and I flew above the treetops as she practiced her 
maneuvers. She swooped low above the trees and I caught my ankle 
on an errant branch. "Hey, careful." She ignored me as she rose again 
and then I hit another branch.  
I opened my eyes. Authand looked down at me as he tapped the 
side of his steel claw against his leather breeches. I blinked a couple 
times and suppressed a yawn. Judging by the shadows, I couldn’t 
have slept more than an hour.  
"Didn’t we just have this conversation? I haven’t even had a meal 
yet since I warned you what would happen if you left camp without 
permission again.  
All traces of sleep left my brain and I stood before him . "I didn’t 
leave camp. I slept in the stables."  
He took a deep breath and held it for a moment before exhaling 
slowly. "Then why are you in your harness?"  
"I wasn’t going to sleep in the dirt in my nightgown." The words 
left my lips before I had even real ized that I had the lie ready -made. I 
looked at my hands; they were caked in dirt with a red smudge giving 
away my fight with the Goblins. I rubbed it against my thigh.  
His eyes followed the motion but he just chuckled.  
"Now I know that the others have bee n giving you a hard time 
here, but I can’t have you violating curfew and coming to the stables 
at all hours of the night either." He paced the small space, waking 
Farean. She lifted her head and looked from him to me, not willing to 
ask her question with s o many telepathic ears present.  
Royal Dragoneer   178 
 I wasn’t sure how much I could say to her either so I simply sent 
her a feeling of warmth and contentment and hoped she got the 
message. Can you sleep with me more often?  The question, benign as it 
was, held volumes of conve rsation.  
"The Colonel was just saying that I couldn’t before you woke." I 
shook my head. I took a step closer to her and hugged her as she 
nuzzled against my chest.  
"I understand the appeal. I often wish that Korth and I were still 
out in the field where w e were rarely more than a few feet from one 
another. But we have rules for a reason. This is your last chance to 
start following them. ALL of them."  
"Yes, sir." Calling the instructors sir instead of their given name 
still required conscious thought, but I  thought the moment warranted 
it. 
"For your punishment, you must skip breakfast and take Farean 
down to the lake to clean her. She must have been rolling in some 
clay mud. It almost looks as if someone bled out all over her."  
"Yes, sir," I repeated. I knew  better than to argue or question the 
boon I’d been given. Instead, I grabbed the bag that had given me 
away and rushed through the still open door for the barracks. "Meet 
me at the lake in ten minutes," I called over my shoulder.  
I turned back to the path  just in time to bowl Esgeril over. She let 
out a little shriek as she tumbled and fell. I reached out a hand to 
help her up, but she recoiled away from me.  
"I’m sorry." I couldn’t meet her eyes. Instead, I found myself 
inspecting the Aluminte rings on the  front of my harness.  
"You are sorry," she muttered. "You have got to be the sorriest 
excuse for a Dragoneer I have ever seen." She got up and pushed 
passed me, knocking me on the shoulder as she went by, despite the 
fact that there was plenty of room on t he path for both of us. Maybe 
I deserved it for running her down.  
I kicked at a stray rock, watching it bounce down the cobblestone 
path before it came to a stop between the rough stones. She’d 
warned me about Lewon, and I hadn’t listened. She’d tried to b e a 
179  Ash Rober ts 
 friend, and I’d rejected her. But to say I was a bad Dragoneer after all 
the effort I’d put in? That really hurt.  
I didn’t see her taking on a company of Goblins and an evil witch. 
I almost wished Lewon and I had gotten caught returning, so I didn’t 
have to lie about that feat. I was no longer the soft and frivolous girl 
who’d run away at the hatching. Now the night dress scrunched 
under my harness barely contained the muscles I’d built in my 
shoulders from the physical activity around camp.  
I might eve n take Florian in a fair fight, not that I expected her 
capable of such a thing. Lewon’s lessons had included hand to hand 
combat. He’d gotten angry because I always lost those sessions, but 
in fact, I let him win towards the end, relishing being pinned to  the 
ground underneath him. What an idiot I’d been to let those feelings 
grow for someone so unworthy of them.  
All I felt now was contempt for Lewon. But he’d earned it. Had I 
been a fool to go back for him and risk Farean and myself? Probably. 
But I’d do it again, even knowing he wouldn’t do the same for me. I 
was learning I couldn’t let what other people did change who I was. 
Besides, his dragon hadn’t deserved to be severed, even if Lewon 
had. 
After I changed and had breakfast, I scrubbed Farean until he r 
scales shone, while she regaled me with stories of our victory as if I 
hadn’t been there. And I had to remind her that it was our little 
secret. It took all morning, but I lifted each scale to clean the grime 
underneath and polished the tops. I squinted,  looking at her as she 
reflected the brilliance of the sun.  
Between my lack of sleep and the effort I’d put into cleaning, 
curling up against Farean where she dozed in the sand seemed 
tempting. But the lunch bell rang, and my stomach reminded me I’d 
been m issing too many meals lately.  
The hall went silent as I entered, and I felt hundreds of eyes on 
me as I made my way to the line. The silence was short lived, 
however, and soon the buzz of voices resumed. As I passed the 
Royal Dragoneer   180 
 tables, I discovered much of it was gossip about me, meant for me to 
overhear. I simply ignored it and took my food to an empty table.  
A group of third year girls sat at the table beside me. They 
watched me sit and, as if a single entity with ten legs and ten arms, 
stood and moved to a table  farther away.  
Empty tables now surrounded me. That was fine by me. Alone, I 
couldn’t hear the barbs being spoken a little too loudly. The room 
suddenly fell silent, and I looked up to see Colonel Authand standing 
at the front.  
"I have put a signup sheet outside," he announced. "Anyone 
wishing to compete for a slot at the Darnetan Dragon Run must 
submit their name by the end of the day. Your instructors will 
consider your progress in all areas and five of you will be chosen to 
represent the training ground s." 
The hall broke into loud murmuring. If I’d had anyone to talk to, I 
would have joined in. This could be my chance to prove my worth 
and be taken seriously. I shoveled my lunch down and got up to 
dump my trash.  
On the way out the door, I noticed Authand  staring at me from 
the teacher’s table. Were his eyes daring me to sign -up, or daring me 
not too?  
As promised, a sheet had been nailed to the wooden 
announcement board. The top simply read "Tryouts" with several 
rows of blank lines. A charcoal stick sat o n the lip. Well, it wasn’t like 
I could become any more of a laughing stock than I already was. 
What did I have to lose?  
I took a breath and scribbled my name before I had a chance to 
back down. By being first, at least I’d shown I wasn’t afraid of my 
peers, or their opinions of me.  
 
 
 
Authand and the other instructors spent a week fielding questions 
from curious Dragoneers before posting a leaderboard  outside the 
mess hall. I was listed as number twenty out of twenty -one student 
candidates. Not a great start, but at least I wasn’t dead last. Lewon 
first and Florian was right behind him. But I couldn’t let that bother 
me. 
The second week, I had moved up  to tenth place. My instructors 
were beginning to recognize my progress. I even made it into the 
advanced class that Selkerdrim taught as a teacher’s assistant. "I want 
the glove from the top of the flag pole," Selkerdrim shouted through 
the amplifying hor n he’d borrowed from the professor. I followed 
her pointer to the Darnetan flag flapping in the wind. Above it sat 
the familiar dragon filial. But a leather glove covered its left wing.  
Farean growled. I could feel her neck muscles clenching. Despite 
multi ple attempts, we still hadn’t managed to grab anything while 
midair. Attempts usually ended in an emergency landing so Farean 
could heal a broken wrist. I knew that each healing provided a full 
renewal so that injuries became good as new. But it still thro bbed 
when I thought about it.  
I exhaled slowly. "We can do this. I’ve got a feeling." She said 
nothing but rose up for the approach. She felt at the flagpole, the sun 
at our backs to reduce glare. The metal post approached more 
quickly than I would have li ked. I squinted at the glove, willing it to 
leap into my hand. Fifty feet to go.  
Farean folded her wing in, sending us into a tilting swirl. Twenty 
feet to go. I extended my arm, lining it up with my target, following it 
as our angle changed. Ten feet. I l eaned forward. I knew in my gut 
Royal Dragoneer   182 
 that I could make it. Five feet. I knew better, but in my mind, I could 
smell the leather.  
*CRACK*  
Pigeons roosting on the stable roof flew off in protest as my 
scream echoed off every building in the camp. Farean dropped to  the 
ground. The jolt sent a fresh wave of pain through my dangling wrist.  
Selkerdrim saw my arm and turned green. "Oh gods. Let me get 
the healer."  
"No, wait." I gritted my teeth through the pain. "Help me down." 
I’d gotten quite good at extricating mysel f from the harness with only 
one hand, but one buckle required putting some pressure on my right 
arm to reach.  
I slid down Farean’s back while Selkerdrim supported me. I 
whimpered as I held the broken joint out to my dragon. She grasped 
the offending limb with her claw. Tears welled in my eyes, and I 
fought to contain them. I’d failed the challenge yet again and while 
being evaluated to boot. At the very least, I would keep some dignity 
in being seen to withstand the pain even though I wanted little more 
to curl up into a ball and cry.  
Soft light pulsed under the tiny scales about her limb, radiating 
towards the point of our contact. I took short, panting breaths as 
heat spread over my arm, seeping deep under the skin. This part 
never got any easier but I kn ew in. Few moments it would pass in a 
few moments. I could feel the bones knit together.  
The glow subsided and Farean released me. I flexed my fingers 
slowly. The pain was gone, except for the hallow memory of it which 
never seemed to quite fade.  
Selkerdri m stared at me, his mouth opening and closing several 
times before he found his tongue. "How did you do that? Nobody 
can do that. No elf has had magic that strong since the days of 
Vernis. Does this hurt?" He grabbed my hand and squeezed where 
the freshly healed tissue.  
The name he mentioned tickled something in the back of my 
mind, a familiarity I couldn’t quite place. I wanted to ask him who 
183  Ash Rober ts 
 that was, but the query was quickly submerged under a sea of his own 
questions.  
"Don’t tell anyone," I told her. "O nly you and Esgeril know." 
Speaking her name still hurt. I wondered if she would betray my trust 
now that we were no longer friends.  
"I." His next words where overpowered by the sound of the horn 
blowing. We turned at the sound. The next emergency drill sh ouldn’t 
happen for weeks yet. We headed towards the sound, soon joined by 
other elves streaming out of the buildings. A few dragon heads poked 
over the crowd, also curious about the unexpected drill.  
We all turned at the sound. We’d just had an emergency d rill two 
days before. It was unlikely to be one again so soon. I moved, 
heading towards the sound, soon joined by other Elves streaming out 
of the buildings. A few dragon heads poked from the stables, alert 
and curious.  
Authand marched to the front of the parade field, pulling his 
harness over his tunic as he went. The buckles gleamed like new, but 
there were reddish stains on his riding leathers under the right breast 
plate, an eternal reminder of the day he’d bloodily lost his hand.  
The aide, whose name nobody seemed to know, handed him a 
speaking horn. The Colonel closed the articulating hook around the 
handle and brought it to his face. "We are under attack from Goblins. 
This is not a drill. Selkerdrim, take Rilith and fly as fast as you can to 
the main  Dragoneer barracks in Verlo to get help."  
Verlo was almost a full day’s flight away. Depending on the size of 
the Goblin force, we might be able to hold them off for two days 
without outside help. These facts came to me easily and instantly, a 
result of o verhearing basic military tactics while playing under my 
father’s war table as a child.  
"Recruits, to arms and defend your home!" Authand called a 
rallying cry.  
Dragoneers jostled each other, some running to the barracks for 
their harnesses, others, who al ready had them on, to the stables.  
Royal Dragoneer   184 
 I was about to run for Farean when Authand grabbed me. "Not 
you, Kalia. Go to my quarters. There is a hatch under my desk that 
will lead you to a cave. I will send Farean to meet you. You’ll be safe 
there, no matter what happens to the camp."  
"But I want to help." I shook him off. "I can’t just cower and hide 
while others are fighting."  
"You can, and you will," he thundered, shaking his hook in my 
face. "I will not put the princess of this kingdom in danger.  
"But—" 
"Go. Th at’s an order, dammit." Something crashed against the 
gate, and the wood started to buckle. "Reinforce the gate!" Authand 
ordered. "I need dragons in the air now!" He ran to where Elves and 
dragons were barricading the entrance.  
"Go to the cave." Farean pl eaded. " I can keep you safe there". I turned to 
find her pacing the ground behind me. I hadn’t even heard her land.  
"Not you, too. We should be up there." I pointed to the sky where 
a dozen dragons carried rocks, logs, and anything they could find to 
drop on the invaders beyond the wall. "We have as much right to 
fight as anyone here."  
Just as I said it, a boulder the size of a cow came sailing over the 
wall. I stood, motionless, as it hit Selkerdrim’s dragon Rilith square in 
the head. Selkerdrim, who had b een mounting the dragon, screamed 
as they both tumbled to the ground. Rilith landed with a sickening 
thud in the grass before us. Neither rider nor dragon moved. I ran 
towards them, and Selkerdrim stirred. Blood trickled from his brow 
where his head had bo unced against Rilith’s bony neck ridge.  
I slowed as I approached. Rilith’s neck lay at an odd angle, his 
head caved in on one side. The Blue dragon was no longer breathing.  
"Selkerdrim, I —" I reached out, trying to help her up.  
"Get away from him!" he scre amed. He had his buckles undone in 
a flash and pulled a knife from his belt as he dropped to the ground. 
"I won’t let you hurt him." Tears flowed down his cheeks as he 
waved the knife from side to side.  
185  Ash Rober ts 
 Farean bellowed behind me. I turned but saw nothing w rong. 
Around the camp the other dragons joined in her baleful cry.  
"He’s dead, Selkerdrim," I said softly. "And you’re hurt. We need 
to get you to the healer." I took a step forward.  
"He’s not dead," he insisted, his eyes lost and confused. "He’s just 
sleeping. Stay away from us."  
I looked around. Everyone was too busy to even notice that Rilith 
had fallen. I couldn’t see Authand, but he needed to send somebody 
else to fetch Dragoneers reinforcements. But if I waded into the 
battle to try and find him, he’d  be pissed. And if no one flew to get 
reinforcements, we’d all be dead.  
"We’ll go," I told Farean. I closed the few feet between us, 
mounted her, and buckled myself in.  
"But"— 
"Now! " I commanded. " You want safe? How much safer can we be than 
flying to the other side of the country?  " 
She considered my argument for a moment, then launched us into 
the air.  
Within seconds, another boulder missile was hurtling toward us.  
"Down.  "I directed.  
Farean tucked her wings and rolled away from the projectile.  
I felt the  air riffle as it passed inches from us.  
Farean started flapping again, gaining altitude.  
We passed over Authand.  
Seeing us overhead, he shouted. "What are you doing? Get down 
here, you idiot girl!"  
I pointed down at Selkerdrim still defending his dead dra gon and 
turned away from him.  
Farean lurched, catching a smaller boulder aimed at us in her 
talons. She labored under its weight, getting closer to the wall before 
tossing it back down on the Goblins. They scattered like 
cockroaches, but quickly returned t o loading their trebuchets.  
I saw Esgeril crouched behind a merlon at the top of the wall, 
firing her crossbow with deadly accuracy. She saved her shots for 
Royal Dragoneer   186 
 those closest to overcoming the defenses. Even so, she’d already 
emptied half of her quiver in the few short minutes since the battle 
began.  
The curve in the wall blocked her view of most of the action to 
her left. We had few enough archers, and that left an unguarded gap. 
I wondered that nobody had ever noticed it before; it seemed 
obvious enough from the air. But what my fellow Dragoneers hadn’t 
seen, the Goblins had. Already, a ladder leaned against that section of 
wall with one of their fighters approaching the battlement.  
I shouted to Esgeril, but the din of the fighting drowned out my 
voice. Farean  banked hard and flew straight at the vile creature. I 
tensed as we sped towards the wall, but Farean was an expert flyer. I 
trusted her with my life.  
Mere feet separated the Goblin from Esgeril, but her attention still 
lay on the ground below, trusting th e archers to her left to protect 
her blind side. The Goblin drew its dagger as it closed the gap.  
We weren’t going to make it in time.  
Farean pushed harder. Instead of pulling up and grabbing with her 
feet as I’d expected, she dove.  
Her jaws crunched down and she grabbed the Goblin by its arm. 
Farean shook her head as her prey struggled to get loose. We barely 
cleared Esgeril, who finally turned as our shadow darkened the sky 
above her. She looked around, saw the glistening dagger the Goblin 
had dropped on the wall, and mouthed what looked like a "thank 
you," as we flew away.  
The Goblin struggled, grabbing at Farean’s eye ridge with his free 
arm, trying to gouge her eyeball.  
She chomped down harder, and I heard bones snap as the Goblin 
screamed.  
"Bleh. It tastes terrible ", she said. " What  should  I do with it?" 
"Fly back over the wall and drop it like you did the stone", I suggested.  
In a flash, she banked, sending us back over the heads of the 
attacking Goblin forces.  
187  Ash Rober ts 
 She opened her mouth and the Goblin screa med one last time, 
plummeting to the earth and splatting as a red stain below us, sending 
the trebuchet operators running for cover once again.  
They didn’t have a chance to get another shot off at us before 
Farean veered east, heading for Verlo.  
We soon pu t the camp and the fighting behind us, but this was not 
the way I’d wanted to earn my freedom. Still, I leaned back and 
allowed the wind to blow my hair behind me. I let go entirely, 
trusting the harness to hold me and relished the feeling of flying 
alone in the sky with Farean. There was nothing like it.  
Farean beat her wings harder and we rose higher. The trees 
blurred together into one green mass.  
"What  are you doing?  "I asked" . This is too high." 
"Vernis  says the air moves  faster the higher  we go. We can get help sooner. " 
There was that name again. But I didn’t know any Dragoneer with 
a dragon named Vernis. " Who is Vernis? " 
"The dragon  king. " 
"Dragons  don’t have a king", I said. " Do you? " 
Farean caught a gust of wind that threw us forward, making me 
grab the harness. The ground streaked below us. I held on as tight as 
I could, but conversation stopped while I fought to keep my balance 
in the tempest. Above me the clouds seemed just out of reach. 
Holding on with my right arm, I extended my left, stretc hing my 
fingers to gain that extra half inch, but I wasn’t any closer to the 
fluffy cotton than before.  
Without warning, we fell, my stomach flying upward into my 
chest. The sensation lasted only a second and then Farean climbed 
back to our previous altitu de. She was riding the currents and wind 
streams, pushing our speed to the upper limits. I felt her suppressed 
panic, as well as my own, as she struggled to keep flying as the wind 
tossed us about. But she was doing it. I don’t know how, but she 
was. Final ly, we descended and the battering winds abated a little.  
"Did your Vernis  warn you about that?" I grumbled.  
Royal Dragoneer   188 
 Farean continued to ignore my questions about her mysterious 
king, so I let it go.  
The air calmed, and we slowed. I tried to match the landscape 
below to the maps I’d studied at the castle when my father wasn’t 
shooing me away. If I was right about our location, we were a little 
off course.  
Farean corrected to the south, sensing my thoughts.  
There was another problem, though. We weren’t going to make  it 
before sun set. My limited navigation skills would do us no good in 
the dark, and I hadn’t yet taken the class that taught Dragoneers 
navigation by the stars.  
Sensing my worry, Farean picked up the pace. She inched closer to 
the faster air above us, bu t the turbulence exhausted her. I could feel 
her muscles straining, her wings aching. She continued like that for 
an hour, alternating higher and lower, elevations, supplementing the 
slower air speeds with more effort. With each cycle, I could feel her 
fatigue, her wings taking longer and longer to recover from the 
buffeting winds.  
It seeped into me like a winter’s chill. My eyelids drooped. " We 
need a plan." I told her."  If you keep up like this, we’ll crash and nobody  will 
help the training  camp. " 
"I don’t like the crashing  part, but why must we help? None of them like us." 
"Duty isn’t about people  liking  you, it’s about doing what is right." My 
father’s words flowed from my lips. And dammit, he was right. " We 
are Dragoneers. ” I told Farean proudly.  "More than that, I am a princess  to 
these people.  And you are the royal dragon . We have to do our best to protect  
them. It’s what rulers do." 
"The dragon  king is my ruler", she insisted. " But maybe  if we save them, 
they’ll  like us." She sounded hopeful and I rea lized, for the first time, 
that the rejection by the other Dragoneers had really been getting to 
her. How had I not seen that, or felt it.  
"You were having  a hard enough  time without  worrying  about me", she said. 
"Good dragons  don’t worry their riders unless they have to." "But now maybe  
189  Ash Rober ts 
 worry.  I don’t know if we can make it. I’m tired and my wings ache. Can’t  we 
land for just a little bit? 
Without realizing it, we’d left the forests behind. Fields full of 
haystacks sprawled below, dotting the landscape wit h fluffy golden 
circles. Maybe a quick nap in one would help. Farean started 
coasting. " Yes, sleep would  be just the thing". 
But I knew we couldn’t, as tempting as it was. If we stopped, we’d 
never be able to find the training camp in the dark.  
"I have an idea," I said to Farean. " Keep flying. " 
One of the things Flatch had taught me was that aching muscles 
were caused when muscle fibers tore from overuse. If our healing 
magic could knit broken bones and dispel bruises, then restoring 
muscles shouldn’t be th at hard.  
I reached out to Farean’s shoulders where her great muscles flexed 
with each beat. Taking a deep breath, the magic pulsed through my 
hands and into her body. Unlike the other times we had healed each 
other, there was no obvious damage to see repai red. I just kept 
pushing the healing light into her until my own arms began to 
tremble.  
"Enough.  You’ll  hurt yourself.  " 
"Was it enough  though?  "I slowly pushed myself upright. " I can give 
you more." My arms quivered in protest at the mere suggestion of it  
but I didn’t care.  
"I’m good. But you aren’t.  Remember,  we both need to make it there. I won’t 
do any good delivering  them a dead Dragoneer. " As if to prove her point, she 
gained speed, flying faster than we ever had before.  
I let her fly; only occasional ly pointing out landmarks to keep our 
course. Slowly, I regained my energy while Farean lost hers to 
exertion. We landed once for water, but otherwise stayed aloft the 
entire trip. I healed her weary muscles twice more, and each time it 
took more out of me . Finally, as the sun dipped towards the horizon 
behind us, we saw the high walls of Verlo in the distance. As we 
slowed for landing, I lost my grip. I had nothing left and just dangled 
limply from the harness.  
Royal Dragoneer   190 
 My mind barely registered as hands loosened m y harness buckles 
and lifted me off Farean’s back.  
"I—" My mind was having trouble coming up with words, or even 
coherent thoughts. "I need to see General Lutania." The Dragoneers 
transferred me to a stretcher and as they carried me from my dragon, 
I looke d back to her entire body trembling as they brought her a side 
of beef to eat.  
I think I must have passed out, because the next thing I knew a 
scratchy voice said, "Princess Kalia, I’m right here. But you’re half 
dead, poor girl. Get the healers for her. S he’s in no condition to tell 
me anything."  
A hand appeared in front of my face, holding a sweet -smelling 
herb to my mouth.  
I pushed it away. My news couldn’t wait. I needed to tell him now.  
But the hand was stronger than mine. He pressed the herb 
between m y lips and someone commanded, "Eat it!"  
I swallowed, and the little willpower I had to stay awake seeped 
from me.  
 
 
 
"Kalia,  you’re  awake "! Farean screeched in my head like a toddler 
reunited with her favor ite toy.  
I opened my eyes to a dimly lit room with stone walls that gleamed 
from years of being scrubbed. The air smelled like the astringent 
healers used to keep their work spaces clean.  
As the fog in my head cleared, I suddenly remembered my 
purpose and sat up. The room swirled for a minute before steadying. 
"I need to speak to General Lutania, immediately," I said to no one.  
"Kalia," a voice said from behind me. More slowly this time, I 
turned to find the General herself sitting in a chair in the corner,  her 
ankle propped up on her opposite knee like a man.  
"How long have I been asleep?" I demanded. The windowless 
room gave me no cues  
"Only an hour," she said. "I’ve been here the entire time. I 
assumed you’d want to speak to me as soon as you woke. No one  
rides themselves and their dragon into the ground like that for less 
than something dire. But I’m curious why you look like the one that 
had carried her."  
I bit my lip and studied the wooden floorboards. I didn’t want to 
reveal my secret. I was considered  enough of a freak already.  
"I’ve been around Dragoneers a long time," she said, seeing my 
hesitancy. "I suspect I already know. You’re not the only Dragoneer 
to have such a trait. And you’re wise, I believe, to keep to yourself as 
much as possible.  
"So, I wasn’t  the only Dragoneer  to be able to heal with magic? " Well, that 
was both a relief and raised a lot of questions.  
Royal Dragoneer   192 
 Here," she handed me a small pouch exuding a familiar smell. 
"This herb will help restore you when you’ve overextended yourself. 
It’s lik e stimleaf but much more powerful. Don’t use it unless you 
must. For some people, it can be addictive."  
I took the pouch and stuffed it in an inner pocket, thanking her. 
But there were more important things at hand.  
"Sir," I said, "Tulta is under attack by  Goblins." Then, I quickly 
detailed what I knew about their numbers and weapons. I finished by 
relaying my assessment of their ability to break our gate and wall 
defenses within two days’ time.  
"This is grave news, indeed." She stood and made for the door.  
"Stay here, while I mobilize the Dragoneers."  
Soon after he left, the great bell clanged. Habit ingrained in me 
from months of drilling brought me to my feet. The room wobbled, 
and I put a hand on the cot to steady myself. I swallowed a pinch of 
the herb that Lutania had given me. It took a couple more attempts 
to cross the room, but I was a little less dizzy each time.  
I moved to the door and down a hall to an arched exit. Torches lit 
the area outside. I made it to the parade field just as the General 
concluded her announcement. Dragoneers raced past me, hurrying to 
prepare for their cross -country journey. The General spotted me and 
intercepted me on my way to Farean. "Go back to bed. I commend 
you on doing whatever it took to get the news to us, but su ch acts 
come at a cost. You’ve done your part. Now rest."  
I shook my head. "I have to go back and help. Those are my 
friends dying out there. Well, at least one is a friend. I think."  
She put his hand on my shoulder. "Princess, your father has 
ordered us t o keep you out of danger."  
"This again?  First Authand  and now the General. " 
"Sir, my father kicked me out of my home and left me to lodge 
with a swineherd," I said bitterly. "He does not care about my well -
being." Months had passed since that day, but bile  still rose in my 
throat recalling it.  
193  Ash Rober ts 
 "You mean a swineherd that worked for him?" The General asked, 
a glint in her eye. "With a chambermaid daughter who just happened 
to find you in the rain and offer her help."  
My mouth opened. I hadn’t told anyone abou t that. "You mean 
my father arranged that?" I asked, angrily. Somehow that knowledge 
made the whole thing worse. Why throw me out and publicly 
humiliate me, only to help me behind the scenes? I’ll tell you why. He 
still wanted power over me, to keep me fro m becoming a true 
Dragoneer.  
"Listen, I’m going," I told her. "Throw me in the Caves after this 
is over if you have to, but for now I have a duty to uphold."  
He looked away before removing his hand. "I can’t allow you to 
go." 
"But—" 
He held up a hand. "I c an’t allow you. But I’m obviously much 
too busy to actively stop you. Just try not to get yourself killed."  
I nodded. "Thank you."  
Before I even called, Farean was landing by my side.  
I climbed onto her, fastening the harness as we lifted from the 
ground. She wheeled up to the faster higher winds immediately this 
time, the moons in the sky providing enough illumination to navigate 
by. 
"Vernis  showed  me the way home". Farean said.  
"Well, lead the way then," I said, knowing better than to question her 
imaginary king.  
The return trip was better than our earlier flight. We had a tailwind 
this time, and Farean was getting better at utilizing the higher winds. 
The ride was smooth enough that I was able to nap a bit on her back. 
We didn’t stop once, and I on ly had to heal her twice. After the 
second time though, I took a bite of the herb the General had given 
me, feeling the energy surge down my throat and into my limbs. We 
didn’t see or hear the General’s Dragoneers behind us the entire trip, 
but I knew they  were coming.  
Royal Dragoneer   194 
 At last, toward dawn, we came in over the lake to give ourselves 
an entrance clear of Goblins and their flinging boulders. As we 
approached, I saw twelve of dragons stretched out around the 
pavilions with healers working over them to tend bro ken wings and 
other injuries. A dozen downed dragons and riders was a heavy battle 
toll. 
As Farean’s talons hit the ground, we narrowly missed being hit by 
another Goblin missile.  
I dismounted and sought out Authand while Farean lapped water 
from the lake.  Portions of the wall had crumbled, but it still repelled 
our invaders. I doubted the General’s Dragoneers would reach us for 
another six hours. And the wall might not hold that long.  
I found Authand in his office with most of the other instructors. 
Floria n and a second year I didn’t recognize stood guard at the door.  
"What are you doing back?" She taunted. "Did it get too scary out 
there, and you came running back to safety?"  
"That doesn’t even make sense," I responded. "If I was looking 
for safety, why wo uld I return to a battle? This has got to be the least 
safe place in all of Darneta right now." I took a step forward, but 
Florian pulled her short sword and blocked my path. Belatedly, the 
other girl, Zimaelan according to the name badge on her leathers, 
pulled hers as well.  
"The Colonel said no one was allowed in. And I’m certainly not 
going to let a coward like you waste his time."  
I pulled my own sword from its sheath. "That’s the last time you 
insult me. Get out of my way, or I will remove you myself."  I 
couldn’t take the both of them, but I was hoping Zimaelan would 
bail. Or maybe even help me.  
Florian snarled and tightened her grip, her face contorting in a way 
that confirmed the orc heritage I had long suspected. We eyed each 
other, waiting to see if  the other would make the first move.  
"Kalia? What are you doing here? Get your butt in here." Both of 
our heads snapped at the sound of Authand’s voice. "What in the 
195  Ash Rober ts 
 ancestors’ name are you both doing with your swords out? Put them 
away. And Kalia, why ar en’t you inside already?"  
I sheathed my sword as I pushed past Florian who also hurried to 
comply. I barely made it through the doorway before Authand 
slammed it behind me.  
"What are you doing back? Not that I don’t remember you 
disobeyed a direct order. I  do. But since you did, I was hoping you’d 
accomplish something worthwhile for my troubles. Instead, you’re 
back her with no help to show for it," He punched the wall with his 
hook. It embedded a full three inches into the wood. He pulled but 
the harness t hat attached the device to his arm came loose instead, 
leaving the straps dangling next to my head.  
I flinched away from it. The contraption seemed even more 
intimidating when it was disembodied from him.  
He moved me aside with his stump and pulled at it w ith his good 
hand. "Well?" He wrestled with his hook. "Answer me, dammit."  
"I did accomplish something," I said. "I made it there just before 
dark. The General and the others should be here in about six hours."  
"Dragon dung!" The hook came free from the wa ll. He held it 
under his arm and cleaned the debris from it before reattaching it. 
"No one can fly that fast without killing their dragon. And Korth 
says Farean is currently down by the lake alive and well. Don’t lie to 
me, girl. If we’re all going to die here, I need to know it."  
"Maybe she’s just faster than your fat old dragon." Outside Korth 
roared. I’d like to see you do half of what I can"," Farean shot back at an 
insult I couldn’t hear.  
Authand’s eyes narrowed. His stare seemed to crawl inside my 
brain and claw at the soft tissue. I’d be seeing those eyes in my 
nightmares. "You’re telling me you flew all night and beat an 
experienced Dragoneer force, with some of the fastest dragons in the 
seven kingdoms, back here by six hours?"  
"I—Yes," I said lamel y. Now I was caught between explaining my 
magic or digging myself into a deeper hole.  
Royal Dragoneer   196 
 Thankfully, I was saved from having to make that decision by 
Lewon bursting through the door. "Calen said you called for me, 
sir?" 
He stopped short when he saw me standin g there. It was always 
awkward between us now. But then he turned to Authand, waiting 
for orders.  
Authand looked at me, calculating, weighing my worth and the 
possibility that what I was claiming was the truth.  
"Kalia claims she and Farean made it to Verlo  and returned in one 
night, and that reinforcements are on their way."  
"That’s not possible," Lewon said. "No one is that fast."  
"That’s what I said," Authand agreed.  
"What could it possibly gain me to lie about this?" I asked 
earnestly, eyeing Lewon, remi nding him with my eyes that we’d both 
seen how Farean could fly when we’d escaped Roland. And maybe it 
would occur to him that I could heal her fatigue.  
"Well, it’s highly unlikely," Lewon said, caving a little. "But 
technically possible."  
"I can’t stake t he camp’s survival on an unlikely possibility," 
Authand said. "But it really doesn’t matter. We don’t have six hours. 
The wall will fall before then. We need to evacuate the injured 
through the tunnel. I will not leave Dragons here to be Goblin meat."  
Lewo n shook his head. "The entire camp is surrounded, except on 
the lakeside, sir. We come out of those tunnels, and the greyskins will 
be waiting for us."  
"We need a distraction," I said.  
"Farean seems pretty good at catching those rocks." Authand 
pointed out  the window to where my dragon had taken to the sky 
without me. As we watched, she caught another of the airborne 
boulders and dropped it back over the wall. "You and she could 
concentrate a barrage surrounding the tunnel exit. It might scare 
them off long  enough for an escape effort."  
I swallowed. The Colonel must be very desperate to defy the order 
from my father to keep me out of harm’s way. Then again, the 
197  Ash Rober ts 
 General had ignored it too. Desperate times called for desperate 
measures.  
"We can do it, sir," I said. "We won’t let you down."  
"Calen and I will help," Lewon said. I suspected he was offering so 
he could keep an eye on me, rather than out of any altruistic feelings, 
but I’d take it.  
Farean and I waited for Lewon to be ready before taking to the 
air. We would have to time our efforts precisely once we reached the 
tunnel exit leading into the forest, but Calen and Farean could mind -
speak to one another, so that would help. The thought crossed my 
mind to "miss" one of the rocks that would be lobbed at th em. But 
Father taught me to never stoop to the level of my enemies.  
Once in the air, Farean quickly caught a rock. The Goblins seemed 
to have caught on to our tactics, however, and followed with a volley 
of arrows. Farean dropped the rock to maneuver aroun d the 
onslaught, and it fell into the camp, sending those below running. It 
had almost hit Florian, and I had no doubt she’d think it had been 
intentional.  
Farean pulled out of her spin beyond the range of the archers. 
She’d managed to protect her wings an d underbelly, but a few arrows 
had lodged between her scales.  
I reached down, pulling them out and sent a quick shot of healing 
energy through her.  
We circled above the camp assessing the situation.  
Lewon and Calen weren’t having any more luck catching roc ks 
than we were. The Goblins were now ignoring us and focusing on 
bringing down the last vestiges of the crumbling wall. Our original 
plan wasn’t going to work.  
"We have to change  the plan". I told Farean. " Rocks  aren’t  going to work,  
but we have to pull the Goblins  away from the tunnel. " 
"Capture  the flag". Farean said, sending images of the game flashing 
in my head.  
"Oh, you’re  brilliant,  "I praised her."  Let’s go." "And be sure to tell Calen  
what we’re up to." 
Royal Dragoneer   198 
 Selkerdrim hadn’t let us onto the playing fi eld since we lost the 
game that first day, but that hadn’t kept Farean and I from practicing 
by ourselves.  
We flew up high, above any possible attack, then wide around the 
battle. I heard Florian’s shrill voice as we retreated. The words were 
lost to the w ind, but I guessed her message. She thought I was 
running away from the battle. Which I was, sort of. But only for a 
moment.  
Once Farean and I were well away from the action, we dove 
beneath the trees and made for the rear flank nearest the tunnel exit. 
Capture the flag was a game of stealth. And if we’d been allowed to 
play, the Blues would have discovered that Farean could navigate the 
forest without disturbing a single twig. But the game was more than 
stealth. It was also about cunning strategy. Lewon ha d taught us that 
the hard way, showing us his team flag, supposedly unguarded and 
easy pickings. He’s lured us to an ambush we’d never seen coming. 
And that’s exactly what we hoped to do to the Goblins.  
"Calen  and Lewon  are ready", Farean said. " They’ve  found a clearing  that 
will work,  and Calen  has shown  me where it is." 
"Then let’s go," I told her.  
She flew forward and we came upon the Goblins rear line near the 
tunnel exit. It was hidden, so they didn’t know it was there. And 
thankfully, they’d left gaps  between each soldier, so we took 
advantage of that.  
Farean picked off the first before we’d even been spotted, heaving 
him in the air to land with a discernable crunch.  
The second Goblin saw us at the last second. She twisted just out 
of Farean’s reach an d pulled her sword. I pulled out my own as we 
pivoted around a branch. We came at her again upside down. The 
Goblin’s thrust was awkward, our orientation seeming to throw her 
off. I had no such problems, this being one of the few things I’d 
practiced that I was actually good at.  
I parried her thrust and used her momentum against her. Her 
blade came free of her hands and slammed into her face. Blood 
199  Ash Rober ts 
 gushed from her nose. A cry escaped her lips but fell short. I looked 
behind to see Farean’s tail tinged in bl ood and the warrior slumping 
to the ground.  
The next few gave us little problem. With the rear guards 
dispatched, our task became more difficult as the Goblin soldiers 
came at us in clustered groups, turning away from the camp wall and 
pushing toward us fo r their turn in the fray. Which was exactly what 
we’d hoped for.  
"Pull back," I told Farean. " It’s time to offer them our flag." 
Farean flew away into the forest, just beyond sight of the 
encroaching Goblins, and I grabbed one of the arrows I’d pulled 
from  between her scales earlier.  
"Couldn’t  you just pretend? " I begged her, looking at the sharp tip of 
the arrow.  
"They’ll  suspect  a trap if they don’t smell my blood,  "she said. " Now do it!" 
"You know you can heal me afterwards. " 
I raised my fist, clutching the arrow, and plunged it into the joint 
where her right wing met her body.  
She cried out, and flapped the wing, quivering with pain.  
"I’m sorry. I’m so sorry," I told her as her injured wing dropped 
limply to her side.  
Three Goblins came charging at us, t heir dark eyes taking in the 
scene —a dragon who had just killed numerous of their brethren, 
suddenly at their mercy with a grounding injury. I saw them all raise 
their snouts in unison, sniffing at my dragon’s lifeblood.  
Farean whirled, running awkwardly, dragging her wing behind her. 
I looked back to see her whacking Goblins aside with her tail, but 
they were gaining on us and there were more coming. I could see the 
bloodlust and hunger in their eyes. There was nothing a Goblin loved 
more than an injured, helpless, dragon.  
Farean crashed through the underbrush, galloping between trees 
and through bushes. And I held on to her for dear life, but I was 
doing more than that. I had my hands on her wing joint, sending 
healing energy into her as fast and hard as I  could.  
Royal Dragoneer   200 
 And then the forest opened up into a large clearing, full of tall 
yellow grasses and blue meadow flowers, like a place you’d expect to 
find a unicorn, not stop to face your inevitable death.  
Farean ran -wobbled to the far end of the clearing and tur ned to 
face the Goblin onslaught.  
Goblins filled the meadow, charging at us in a huge mob.  
And then the air was full of dragons, dropping from the trees like 
rabid stones. Every uninured Dragon and rider that wasn’t helping 
with the evacuation had fled the  camp and come here to our ambush.  
Calen and Lewon took out a Goblin just as he raised an ax to us.  
No one else even got close.  
"Pull out the arrow, " Farean said, and I looked down to see that her 
joint wound was already healing, forming scar tissue that h ad almost 
pushed the arrow out.  
I grabbed it and tugged it the rest of the way, happy to hear her 
sigh with relief.  
The pretty yellow meadow grass and blue flowers were now 
strewn with Goblin blood and corpses.  
"The Goblins just breached the camp wall," Le won said, landing 
next to us. "But Florian’s Masta reports that the evacuees are out of 
the tunnel and all headed to safety thanks to your quick thinking and 
Farean’s acting skills. Good plan," he said, giving me a nod of 
grudging respect.  
"Actually, it wa s your plan," I pointed out. "I just used it better."  
 
 
 
We were all congratulating ourselves on a clean victory, when I 
noticed a dragon silhouette in the sky flying towards us. The Colonel 
was easily reco gnizable on his huge dragon, but Korth wasn’t flying 
well at all. He’s been hit by multiple arrows, and there were visible 
tears in his wings.  
The Orange dragon howled and pitched to the right. Broken 
harness straps dangled uselessly, and Authand held on f or dear life 
with his one hand. Then Korth pitched the other way suddenly, and 
Authand lost his grip.  
The Colonel tumbled free of his dragon.  
Korth snatched at his rider, trying to catch him, but with his wing 
askew he missed. Korth shrieked with fury and tried again but 
couldn’t keep up with Authand’s free fall.  
"Farean," I shouted and pointed. Without looking, she took off 
towards the Colonel. Her wings pounded against the air, pushing us 
even faster than when we had ridden the great air current. The wind  
hurt my face but still we pushed onward, the gap between us and him 
closing with each beat.  
Her claws glanced off his armor before she snagged his arm. His 
momentum fought against ours and I could hear the pop of his 
shoulder coming free of its socket fro m my perch. His scream was 
echoed by Korth who coasted into the meadow, joining the other 
Dragoneers.  
There must have been one lone Goblin left in the woods —an 
archer who hadn’t fallen for our trap or run for the camp wall. 
Unfortunately, he was also a ver y good shot.  
Royal Dragoneer   202 
 Slowed from the Colonel’s added weight, Farean couldn’t dodge 
his arrow, and it struck her just below her heart.  
"Farean! " I cried out, clutching at my chest, feeling the sharp pain 
as if the arrow had pierced me.  
She glided out of the archer’ s range, taking us over the lake where 
no Goblins dared go.  
Below us, the Colonel swung in the wind, moaning on the edge of 
consciousness. Somewhere behind us in the clearing, Korth hissed 
and screeched for his injured rider. I calculated the distance. We were 
losing too much altitude to make it back there.  
"He’s too heavy, " Farean complained, pain tinging her voice. " I’m 
going to drop him." 
"No, you’re  not", I said, but I could feel her straining not to lose her 
grip. Boy, wouldn’t we be the talk of the Dr agoneers for years to 
come if we dropped the Colonel on his head from three hundred feet 
up. We’d never live that down.  
I had to do something, so I unhooked my harness. My hands 
shook as they manipulated the oiled buckles. Thoughts of falling 
from Farean’s  back filled my head, but I pushed them aside.  
I loosened the final buckle. For the first time in months of flying, 
nothing held me to Farean’s back. I inched towards her chest, making 
sure of each handhold before letting go of the other. My feet found 
her foreleg. I balanced myself on her extended limb while I crouched 
to grab at her with my arms.  
She hit a pocket of air and dropped suddenly, pitching me 
forward. Thankfully, my waving arms caught the same leg I had been 
standing on. I struggled to regain m y perch, one flailing foot 
knocking the Colonel in the head.  
The impact jostled him to semi -consciousness. His eyes went wide 
when he looked up and saw me dangling above him on Farean’s leg, 
both of us hundreds of feet in the air.  
"Uh, hi," I said.  
"Kalia,  what are you doing?" he said, his words slurred a little. 
"Get back in your harness."  
203  Ash Rober ts 
 "Grab my hand," I said, reaching out for him. I knew it was his 
good arm that had been dislocated when Farean caught him. He was 
going to have to reach up with his hook and that might get painful 
for me.  
"I can’t do that," he said, realizing the same thing.  
"If you don’t, Farean is going to drop you," I said. I could see her 
talons slipping loose. He must have been able to feel it.  
"She can drop me over the lake," he said . "From this height, there 
is a good probability I would live."  
"I need more than a good probability," I said, shaking my open 
hand at him. "My hand will heal."  
"Okay," he nodded. "On the count of three."  
"One," I said. "Two. Three."  
I reached down, and he  thrust up, his hook catching over most of 
my fingers, but the point dug into my pinky and tore through it.  
I didn’t scream or make a noise. If Farean could fly with an arrow 
in her chest, I could handle a little hook in the pinky.  
I yanked the Colonel up with all my strength, pain shooting 
through my hand, arm and shoulder. But he was up, wobbling on her 
leg joint next to me.  
I yanked my hand back, pulling his hook from my flesh, and we 
both scrambled into the one -person harness. It was awkward and 
tight, but he got us both tied in.  
"Help me now", Farean said, her voice sounding weird and weak.  
I took a deep breath. I’d wanted to keep my power a secret, but 
my dragon needed me. I closed my eyes and called the power forth. I 
heard Authand gasp when my hands began to glow. With my pulsing 
hands on Farean’s back ridge, I send my energy in looking for the 
arrow in her chest. I should be able to push it out, just like I had the 
one I’d jammed into her wing joint. But this one was much deeper, 
and it was bleeding so much more.  
Blood dripping from the wound whipped upwards on the wind, 
splattering my face.  
Royal Dragoneer   204 
 But I could feel the broken shaft pushing away from her and 
poking above her scales. I paused my healing long enough to lean 
over her neck and feel for it with my  fingers.  
The arrow head came loose from the wound and I grabbed it, 
tossing it away. Farean took a few tentative flaps, but we continued 
to lose altitude.  
"She can’t carry two riders," Authand said. "Most dragons can’t."  
"The shore is not too far," I told  him. "She can make it."  
"I can make it", Farean agreed.  
"I’m not crash -landing on your little dragon," The Colonel said 
stubbornly, untying the harness ropes.  
"What are you —" he was jumping before I could finish my 
sentence, his splash dousing me as he hi t the lake with a smack.  
Well, he’d only had to drop a few feet, and if anyone could swim 
to shore with a dislocated shoulder, the Colonel could.  
I looked back to make sure he was okay, and he waved his hook at 
me. 
"Farean,  make sure Korth  knows  where his rider is. "I suggested.  
"I already  have", she said, " he’s leading  a rescue  team to the beach. " 
My foot dragged in the water as Farean skimmed over the surface.  
"Up, "I encouraged her, now that we’d gotten rid of all the extra 
weight.  
She pulled up and flew  to the lakeshore easily, landing in the soft 
sand.  
"I could have made it with him", she said indignantly. " He didn’t  need to 
jump. " 
"I know", I said, rubbing her between the ears like she loved.  
Suddenly, the concussion of an explosion cracked the sky, co ming 
from the direction of the camp. The ground rumbled and shook 
under our feet.  
"What  was that?" I asked, as Farean leapt into the sky.  
We flew cautiously toward the direction of that awful sound, 
Farean staying high enough that nothing could hit us. As we flew 
over the camp, I saw the smoking crater where a section of the north 
205  Ash Rober ts 
 wall had once been. The Goblins were already inside, but they  must 
have found a stash of firerock and were going to use it to level the 
camp and everything in it.  
The sky above us darkened, and I looked up to see a swarm of red 
dragons descending through the clouds toward the camp, their 
archers spitting arrows. The  Dragoneers had arrived. But the Goblins 
still had the firerock. I didn’t want to imagine what one of those 
stones could do to a dragon. Still, two could play at that game. I had 
a piece of the explosive rock myself. I’d gotten so distracted that day 
with Lewon that I’d never reported its existence.  
Taking advantage of the momentary distraction, Farean and I flew 
towards our salvation. We skimmed the surface of the water to the 
beach. I started unfastening the buckles in preparation of landing 
while keeping  an eye out.  
Unfortunately, A Goblin lookout spotted us. I could see him 
waving his arms and shouting at his compatriots.  
"Farean,  if we fly over, can you grab it?" 
"Vernis  says that if my talons  scratch  it, it will ignite. " 
"Damn, " I said, stealing Authan d’s favorite epithet. Most of the 
Goblin archers were engaged with the Dragoneers. Even if they saw 
us, they wouldn’t be able to maintain continuous fire towards the 
beach. We twisted away and circled back. "Well, it’s about time I 
caught that glove."  
We f einted a few times to get a good feel for the rhythm of their 
shooting. There was a ten second gap between the end of one volley 
and the beginning of the next. Ten seconds wasn’t much. Farean 
would have to be traveling at full speed while I tried to pry a rock out 
of the dirt from her back. To make matters worse, in order to get 
into position, she would have to rotate at the last minute, leaving me 
completely exposed to errant arrows.  
I waited for another volley to pass. How many arrows had they 
brought wit h them. Surely, they’d have to run out soon.  
The archers took their usual pause, and we dove from our position 
in the trees. We sped for the red veined rock glittering in the filtered 
Royal Dragoneer   206 
 sunlight, each powerful beat of Farean’s wings propelling us towards 
the ground. I breathed deeply, forcing myself to relax.  
Three seconds until the next arrow volley.  
Two seconds.  
Farean flipped upside.  
One second.  
I extended my arms over my head towards the ground. Or was it 
under my head?  
My fingers touched the rock. For a breath, I thought I’d missed it, 
but it came free of the ground and into my hands as Farean 
completed her rotation.  
Another beat of her wings pushed us away.  
An arrow brushed past my face, just kissing my skin.  
I put my hand to the wound and nearly dropped  the stone. I 
tucked the head -sized rock under my arm and then felt for the cut 
again, my fingers coming away wet with blood. But it was only a 
small wound. We’d been damn lucky.  
Farean rose back above the trees, well beyond the range of the 
archers. The b attle had become a stalemate. Dragonback archers 
were keeping the Goblins from their war machine, but likewise, they 
were keeping us from getting close enough to do real damage.  
I searched for Lewon and Calen in the crowd of Dragoneers, but I 
didn’t see th em anywhere. Perhaps they were with the Colonel and 
the injured wherever they were hiding. When I asked Farean if she 
could locate Calen, she shook her head and flashed me a jumbled 
image of Lewon and Calen fighting alongside Goblins.  
"What  was that?" I as ked her, confused.  
"Don’t  know", she said. " I lost him." 
Could Dragons block one another? And if so, what were Lewon 
and Calen up to? Lewon was a jerk who had sold me to a gangster to 
pay his debts, but he wouldn’t side with the enemy over his own 
kind, wo uld he? Goblins had massacred his village. He’d told me that. 
Of course, it could have been a lie.  
207  Ash Rober ts 
 I pushed those thoughts aside and looked for the General instead. 
She was easy to find on the back of her great mountain of a dragon. 
I’d heard rumors , but they hadn’t done the huge creature justice. 
Flarnor made Korth look like a baby. If the Orange dragon flew in 
front of the sun, I was sure it would plunge the day into darkness. 
How did something that big even get off the ground?  
"Sheer force of will ," The General shouted as they closed the 
distance between us. "I trust this isn’t a social call."  
I shook my head and held up the firerock.  
She recoiled from it before regaining his composure. "Aren’t you 
the resourceful one?" They flew even closer, and u sing dragon -
thought to keep from being overheard, we formulated a plan.  
The General and her dragon broke away, and two greens came up 
to escort us. They were larger than Calen, but not half as large as 
Flarnor or even Korth. We had to be a sight, with our mismatched 
dragons, but no other Blue in the fleet was as agile as Farean.  
The Red -mounted archers focused on the Goblin rangers. 
Meanwhile, the more massive Oranges, replete with their bronze 
belly armor, created a barrier the Goblin arrows simply bounced  off 
of. The other Blues and Greens harried the ground forces from the 
flanks.  
With all the attention on the archers, the Goblin’s trebuchet’s 
platoon was left unmolested. Realizing this, they resumed their work 
loading firerock into the bucket. Aimed at e ither the Dragoneers or 
the camp, the damage would be devastating.  
And it was my job to keep that from happening. I looked from left 
to right, nodding to each rider in turn. We dove towards our target. 
The two Greens crisscrossed in front of me, providing cover for me 
while simultaneously making themselves harder to hit.  
I led from the rear of the formation, guiding Farean with nudges 
from my feet. These directions were passed to the other two via the 
dragons’ psychic communication. Together, we moved as if  a single 
organism.  
Royal Dragoneer   208 
 The trebuchet team noticed us and doubled their efforts to 
prepare the machine. The gap between us continued to close. I 
needed to get within fifty feet to accurately hit either the weapon or 
its ammunition. Closer than that, though, an d we would be caught in 
the explosion.  
The Greens parted, leaving us unprotected but clear to take the 
shot. The Goblin Corporal looked up, her mouth open. The ruse had 
worked; they hadn’t noticed Farean or my deadly cargo at all.  
Our escort gone, we banke d, allowing me an unencumbered view 
of the target. I could make out the individual fibers of the ropes 
holding it together. I shook my head. That level of detail shouldn’t be 
visible from this distance. I set the mystery aside for now. If I missed 
now, the re would be no second chance.  
I aimed for the heart of the machine, where I had the least chance 
of missing it entirely. With my newly enhanced vision, I couldn’t tell, 
but we seemed to be closer than I had wanted. There was nothing to 
be done for it now, and I lobbed the firerock at the trebuchet. No 
sooner than it cleared my hands and Farean banked and beat 
furiously away.  
I heard the explosion behind us and turned to look just as the 
shockwave hit us. The force completely overpowered Farean and we 
went t umbling head over tail. The turbulence passed but not before 
forcing us into an oak. I felt the crack of her wing bone though our 
bond before I heard the snap with my ears.  
Even though it wasn’t mine, the pain dulled my senses. I knew I 
needed to get out t here and heal the break, but an aching pain in my 
chest seeped my energy and sapped my will. I looked down, 
expecting to be injured but my harness was intact. Something was 
wrong, but I couldn’t figure out what because I was suddenly 
overwhelmed with exhau stion.  
Four green claws descended in front of us, the owner of each pair 
picking a side. The dragon on the right grabbed gingerly at the 
broken wing, taking care to support it in front of the break. The 
dragon on the left hooked on to the other side a mome nt later.  
209  Ash Rober ts 
 Farean seemed to be as affected by the explosion as I and hung 
limply in their embrace.  

 
 
 
The dragons lowered us to the ground with practiced ease. Hands 
unbuckled my harness and pulled me up from  my prone position 
over Farean’s neck ridge. They lifted me off her back and walked me 
around to her broken wing.  
In an instant, the fog and fatigue lifted. My dragon was hurt. I 
needed to do something.  
The healer, Tulowa pushed his way through the crowd a nd 
ordered the bystanders to help straighten Farean’s wing. As they 
worked, he shook his head and muttered, "It’s a bad break. She may 
not fly again."  
I couldn’t accept that. Farean would never accept that. She was 
born to fly. And I certainly wouldn’t acc ept that prognosis if there 
was something I could do that would guarantee her recovery.  
I pulled free of the Green riders holding me up, the same 
Dragoneers who had escorted me on the attack against the trebuchet. 
I ran to Farean’s side. The healer shouted , and his helpers grabbed at 
me. 
"Leave her be!" Authand shouted, the crowd parting for him. 
"That’s her dragon." His dislocated arm hung in a sling but, 
otherwise, he seemed to be no worse for our rescue.  
"She has no medical training," Tulowa said. He cro ssed his arms 
and squared off against the Colonel. "Her proximity will only make 
things worse."  
"Or it could comfort her dragon." Authand nodded at the men 
trying to straighter her wing as Farean writhed in agony.  
"Fine."  Tulowa nodded at his helpers, and they let me go.  
Royal Dragoneer   212 
 I called forth the magic even as I ran to her. Golden sparks flew 
from the ends of my fingertips into the leathery skin that covered her 
wing. Then I was by her side, kneeling at the break and making 
physi cal contact. The crowd grew quiet as they watched me heal my 
dragon. I could feel the bone knit back together under my hands. 
Satisfied the wing was repaired, I sat back and panted.  
"That should do it, dear. Give it a try."  
She made a halfhearted motion wi th it but otherwise continued to 
languish on the ground. I scratched at the persistent itch I’d had since 
the explosion while I tried to get her to respond.  
I examined her body but didn’t see anything wrong until I noticed 
a patch of red seeping from benea th her.  
"Help me roll her over," I shouted over my shoulder. I didn’t wait 
but started pushing at her side. "Turn on your side," I begged her.  
Tulowa’s assistants stood beside me, two on each side, and helped. 
Even the doctor himself joined the effort.  
Farean’s feeble attempts slowed and more of the Dragoneers 
joined us. Authand pressed his back against her side and pushed. 
Esgeril forced herself through the crowd and slid between the medic 
and me, placing her small hand over mine. She gave me a brief smile  
before turning to the attention at hand.  
Slowly, we rolled Farean over to her side. Splinters from the 
trebuchet laced her stomach and chest, but that wasn’t the problem. 
A section of the mast, too large to be considered a splinter, 
protruded from her che st. As thick as my arm, it had driven through 
her scales and dangerously close to her heart.  
I grabbed it with both hands and yanked. It didn’t give. I put my 
hands higher on it for leverage, ready to try again.  
Tulowa grabbed my hands and shook his head. "If you remove it, 
she will bleed out."  
"I can heal her." I said.  
"Maybe," he said. "But if the beam has pierced her heart, she will 
be dead before your magic even starts."  
213  Ash Rober ts 
 Tears welled in my eyes. "But she’ll die if I don’t." I choked back a 
sob. "What ca n I do?"  
Esgeril spoke in her, sweet, lilting southlands accent. "What if we 
pull it out slowly? She could she heal Farean’s body right behind us."  
I looked to the doctor. He scratched at his chin before speaking. 
"That could work. But you’ll have to be fa st." 
The magic surged back to my hands. "Then what are we waiting 
for?" Sparks danced from my fingertips above Farean’s hide. I 
pressed against her flesh. The faint heart beat shocked me. Where 
was the strong thrumming that soothed me to sleep on so many 
nights?  
Tulowa gripped the shaft near where it entered her. The largest of 
his assistants grabbed hold of the remainder. A hand touched my 
shoulder. I spared a glance to see Esgeril standing behind me, 
offering support.  
As they pulled, I willed the magic de ep into her body. They pulled 
slowly, inch by inch, but I still wasn’t healing her fast enough. Blood 
seeped and then gushed out of her body. I pressed harder. The 
wound and my hands grew hot.  
The broken trebuchet piece came free. I stuck my hand in the 
opening it produced, begging the blood to stop pouring out of her. 
Unbidden, I thought of Theron and how I’d run and hid in my room 
when he slaughtered his pigs. He wouldn’t recognize that sheltered 
and afraid girl kneeling here covered in dragon’s blood.  
The magic burned through me. Burning flesh filled my nostrils 
and I realized with a start that it was my own. The blood seemed to 
be slowing, but I couldn’t hear Farean anymore. After nearly a year of 
her taking up residence in my head, she was gone.  
"Come  on, don’t give up. "Tears streaked the dirt and blood that 
plastered my face. Behind me, Esgeril gripped my shoulder tighter. 
The voices of the Elves and dragons around us muffled into 
nothingness. My vision narrowed. Nothing existed but the blue 
dragon bef ore me, my hands deep in her body and Esgeril’s on mine.  
Royal Dragoneer   214 
 The magic flagged, but I willed it forward. Esgeril supported my 
weight now to keep me from collapsing. While there was still life in 
my body, I would move it into Farean’s.  
Her breathing became shallow. So shallow, in fact, that I couldn’t 
even see her chest move. Her heart was so faint that I couldn’t feel 
the beating either.  
"It’s over." A voice said.  
I shook my head. What was over?  
Tulowa’s hands shook me and pulled me from Farean.  
"She’s dead ," he said. "You did all you could. But the wound was 
too great."  
"No!" I screamed. I tried to break free from his grip, but he held 
me tight. I pounded my fists against his chest. "She’s not dead. I can 
still heal her."  
"No, you can’t." His voice grew gru ff. "Stop being hysterical and 
face the facts." He dug his fingers into my shoulder. Wincing, I 
dropped to the ground.  
A knife appeared before me, gripped by Esgeril’s thin, delicate 
hand and pointed at his abdomen. "You take your hands off her right 
now, or I will gut you in front of everybody."  
He removed his grip, and backed away from the knife, nearly 
tripping over a tuft of grass in the haste of his escape.  
Esgeril swung the knife from side to side. "Nobody comes near 
her, you hear me? You let her be. She’s as much a Dragoneer as 
anyone here. She’s earned the right to grieve as she needs." Nobody 
approached, but they didn’t leave either.  
I scampered back to Farean’s side, and tried to call forth the magic 
again, but it wouldn’t come. "No. You can’t be d ead!" I beat against 
her side with my fists. I closed my eyes and begged all the gods for 
her to come back. She just lay there. "Vernis," I whispered. "I don’t 
know who you are, but I know you’ve been helping us. Help us 
now." I didn’t know how Vernis spok e to Farean, but he wasn’t 
saying anything to me.  
215  Ash Rober ts 
 I pressed my hands against the wound again. "Come on, you 
stupid magic. Don’t fail me when I really need you." I felt a slight 
tingling in my palms and opened my eyes to see them glowing. Barely 
noticeable,  but there. I urged the golden healing light into her body. 
The crowd murmured behind me, but nobody dared approach 
Esgeril’s knife.  
I gave Farean what feeble magic I could. Salty tears ran down my 
face and onto my blood -soaked hands. The color glowing thr ough 
me changed hue. It was still golden, but richer, more alive somehow. 
"Come on, Farean. Wake up. I need you. I didn’t want you at first, 
but now I can’t live without you."  
The glowing surged. The light burned my eyes. I tried to look 
away, but it was e verywhere. Every nerve in my body screamed and 
pain overtook me. An invisible forced pushed me from her. My head 
hit the dirt, the pain and light continuing to wash over me until that 
was all that existed.  
A dragon roared.  
I recognized the sound.  
Farean ro ared, her voice strong and powerful.  
Joy filled my heart, threatening to burst it.  
Then everything went dark.  

 
 
 
I opened my eyes to find myself in yet another healer’s 
whitewashed stone room. By the light, it ap peared to be late morning. 
Bandages covered my hands, and I felt like a dragon had sat on me. I 
pushed up to sit but found more pain instead. A moan escaped my 
lips. 
Fabric rustled behind me and Esgeril’s face filled my field of 
vision. "You’re awake," she  said. "I’ll go tell the doctor." She scurried 
to the flap at the far end but stopped. She returned and put her hand 
over mine. Or at least over the bandages.  
She planted a kiss on my lips and bounded away. "You’re awake," 
she repeated, her voice noticeabl y higher, before disappearing 
outside. " Okay,  that was weird. " 
"Farean? " I reached out with my mind.  
No response came.  
A wave of incredible grief hit me. After everything I’d done, I’d 
failed. She was gone, and I’d forever be alone. " I’m sorry, Farean.  "I 
exhaled,"  "feeling my throat fill with tears.  
"Hey, I was sleeping ". Her rumbling voice filled my head with more 
than just a touch of irritation.  
"But you were dead". 
"Yes. And you saved me. "She said, as if explaining something to a 
small child. " That’s  what we do. We save each other. "This time her words 
came with warmth. I sent her an image of me hugging her tightly, 
nuzzling against her snout. She returned with an image of me kissing 
Esgeril instead.  
I blushed, even though nobody else could know what sh e’d 
thought to me. " I thought  you were asleep. " 
Royal Dragoneer   218 
 "Aye, she should be. Let yer beast rest." Tulowa said as he entered 
the room, followed by Esgeril, Authand, and General. He turned to 
his entourage, "Since I can’t keep you all out of here while I see my 
patient, you will stand back and not interfere. I assume I have your 
permission to go near her?" He glowered at Esgeril.  
She nodded sheepishly while the other two looked on the 
exchange with bemused expressions.  
"I’m supposed  to let you rest now"," I told Fare an. "But I’ll see you when 
they let me out of here. "Warmth and happiness filled my heart at the 
thought.  
Tulowa came to my side and unwrapped the gauze that covered 
my hands, then examined them. He applied a cream after that, and I 
flinched as the ointmen t stung the sensitive flesh.  
"That’s a good sign. They should heal nicely." He nodded to 
himself and applied new bandages. He listened to my heart and lungs 
and all the other pointless tests that healers subject their patients to. 
"You’re on bed rest for a  sevenday and may have a miserable couple 
days, but you’ll fully recover."  
I thanked him, and he said goodbye, giving Esgeril one final glare 
before leaving.  
The others were silent at first. I understood that. What do you say 
to the person who brought some body back from the dead? Authand 
was the first to speak.  
"You’ve gotten yourself in a fair amount of trouble, Princess 
Kalia. You disobeyed direct orders from both myself and General 
Lutania and put yourself in mortal danger. And you didn’t tell 
anybody th at you are a nestorphen."  
"A what?" I interrupted.  
He frowned at me. "A nestorphen. Someone with healing magic. 
It manifests in less than one in a thousand of us and almost never 
outside of Dragoneer families. If we had known, we would have 
approached your  training differently. Not that anyone could have 
taught you the stunt you pulled." He shook his head. "Continuing the 
219  Ash Rober ts 
 list of your infractions, you interrupt your leaders, and you destroyed 
half my camp." He raised his arms with an exasperated sigh.  
"On t he flip side, Lutania said, "you brought help faster than 
anyone else could have and almost singlehandedly defeated an entire 
legion of Goblin soldiers. I’d say that being restricted to quarters for 
a sevenday is sufficient punishment."  
Behind them, Esgeri l giggled.  
Authand turned and stared at her. "Now, I know we make certain 
allowances for Dragoneers in relationships, but if you pull a knife on 
a commanding officer again, it will be the Caves for you. 
Understand?"  
She swallowed and nodded before squeakin g out an affirmative. 
"Yes, sir."  
Authand’s words didn’t make any sense. Who was Esgeril seeing? 
It must have happened while we weren’t speaking, but I hadn’t 
noticed her with anyone. The thought that she was dating someone 
bothered me more than I thought it should. I pushed the question 
aside for now. I had a sea of others to ask.  
"Sir?" I brought everyone’s attention back to me. "Will I still be 
considered for the Dragon Run?"  
Authand deflated a little. "I didn’t want to tell you this. I thought 
you would  fail on your own merits, but that seems unlikely now." He 
bit his lip. I’d never seen him at a loss for words before. "Your father 
forbids you from competing in the Run."  
I wanted to scream. I wasn’t sure who I was more angry —him or 
Father. Probably both.  I’d never be taken seriously as a Dragoneer if 
I continued to get special treatment.  
There was a commotion behind the door, and it swung open. I 
caught a brief glimpse as Dragoneers in brown and my father’s 
guards in green stared each other down. Father’s  frame then blocked 
the view as he entered, my mother gliding in behind him.  
Lutania gave them a quick bow at the waist before exiting into the 
hallway where I could hear him scolding his Dragoneers, "Stand 
Royal Dragoneer   220 
 down, you morons. When I said let no one in, that  did not include 
the king." The door closed behind him.  
Seeing me, Mother’s composure fled, and she ran to my side, 
giving me a gentle hug.  
It was nice to feel her arms around me again, but I pulled away, 
unsure of how I felt about my parents anymore. Why were they here? 
They had abandoned me. What did they want now? To continue 
controlling me while holding me at arm’s length?  
"You sent me away," I said looking my father in the eyes. "But you 
won’t let me live the life you’ve sent me to fully. Instead, you block 
me at every turn, and make me look like a coward to my peers. Is that 
what you want?"  
He returned my glare; his features hardening into a look that 
almost always preceded a lecture. But then he sighed. "You’re right, 
Kalia. I handled this entire situ ation badly. Please forgive me."  
I couldn’t speak. In sixteen summers, I’d never heard him 
apologize to anyone. I glanced at my mother, and she nodded at me, 
tears glistening at the corners of her eyes. "I’m sorry too," she said, 
softly.  
I was still speech less, so I just nodded and looked down at my 
bandaged hands. Was this real? Where they truly going to let me live 
a Dragoneer’s life? Or was this all just for show and politics?  
My father turned to Authand. "Has she qualified for a position in 
the race?" H e asked.  
"She lost marks for her lack of discipline," he said, and my father 
nodded knowingly. "But," Authand went on, "she exhibited some of 
the best defensive and offensive flying I’ve ever seen yesterday. She’s 
the only reason this place is still standi ng. If anyone has earned a 
spot, it’s her." Having said his piece, he stepped back.  
Father turned back at me. "Well, in that case, I don’t think that I 
can, in good conscious, keep you from competing."  
"Thank you, your highness," I said, the formal honorif ic slipping 
out. It just didn’t feel right to call him daddy anymore. I wasn’t a 
221  Ash Rober ts 
 child. And "father" made me feel inferior. But he was royalty, and so 
was I. Didn’t that put us on equal footing?  
"You are welcome," he nodded at me. "I look forward to cheeri ng 
you on from the stands. Now, I am sorry we can’t stay longer, but I 
must get back Kastea. Duty calls. It always calls." He moved toward 
the door.  
Mother wrapped her arms around me once more, and this time I 
accepted her embrace. "I know you have duties now," she said, "But 
you are welcome to join us at the castle any time you are in town."  
I nodded, not trusting myself to speak.  
Once they left, Authand glanced between Esgeril and me. "I’m 
sure you two have a lot to talk about. But remember," he looked 
pointedly at Esgeril, "bed rest for a sevenday. No funny business."  
Esgeril blushed from the ears down to her toes at his statement.  
Then Authand followed my parents out the door, leaving the two 
of us alone for the first time since I had woken.  
"What’s goin g on? What is everyone hinting about?" I asked a still 
blushing Esgeril.  
She sat at the edge of my bed and placed her hand on mine. 
"Remember when you asked about me having a male dragon?"  
I remembered how upset she had gotten at the question, and how 
she’d refused to discuss it. "You said that it happened sometimes."  
"It does. In Dragoneer circles, it’s usually seen as a sign. Not many 
bond with a dragon of the opposite sex, but when it happens…" Her 
voice trailed off and she examined the stonework in the room.  
"Yes?"  
"When it happens," she drew circles on the floor with her foot, "it 
is usually a sign that the rider is gay."  
I stared at Esgeril, thinking about our friendship and all we’d been 
through together. And finally, the kiss she’d given me when I’d first 
woken. The kiss I had thoroughly enjoyed.  
"I’m gay, Kalia," she said, taking my silence for confusion. "I like 
women. But I was afraid to tell you. I know it’s not viewed the same 
in the central district as it is in the provinces."  
Royal Dragoneer   222 
 I opened my mouth to speak, but she held out her hand. "No, I 
need to finish. To finally say it out loud. I couldn’t tell you because I 
wasn’t sure how you’d react and…" This time I let her finish. "I love 
you."  
 
 
 
Shortly after my bedrest was over, I found myself on another 
stone bench. All Dragoneer ceremonies and events seemed to feature 
them. For everything that had changed in my life over the past year, 
here I was sitting on another stupid stone bench.  
At least I wanted to be at this ceremony. The Battle of Tulta had 
proven my worth. I wouldn’t say I single -handedly defeated the 
Goblin invaders there. But Farean would. In fact, she said it pretty 
much every chance she got.  
"Because  it’s true, "she said proudly" . Where  was everyone  else while we 
were saving  their hides?  That’s  right, hiding  in the woods  while we risked  our 
lives". 
I rolled my eyes, hoping everyone was too busy with the ceremony 
to listen in on her boasting. Never let it be said that drago ns weren’t 
the vainest creatures in all the kingdoms.  
Farean started to protest, but I blocked her out. Colonel Authand 
had finished introducing my father.  
"Today we celebrate those who helped defeat the Goblins at 
Tulta," the king began his speech, "and h onor those who lost their 
lives there. Or worse." His eyes darted to where Selkerdrim sat by 
himself. After the ceremony he would be escorted to a special facility 
at Envinyata. His body remained, but his spirit had departed.  
I forced my attention back to Father as he read off the list of 
names. So many killed. So many broken. I made a silent vow to do 
whatever it took to prevent such a tragedy from happening again.  
"Of course,  we will", Farean agreed.  
With each name, the crowd grew more somber. Dragoneers made 
up the majority of those assembled, with dragons gathered in the 
Royal Dragoneer   224 
 grass beyond the amphitheater. The rest of the audience consisted of 
nobles and other dignitaries.  
"Fortunately, as in most battles, while much was lost, much was 
gained," Father continu ed. "Many of the Dragoneer recruits proved 
themselves that day. Even with their dragons grounded, they 
demonstrated the merit of a ranged weapon. The wall held as long as 
it did thanks to the efforts of the Red riders.  
The red dragons trumpeted in the fiel d as their riders cheered. I 
risked a glance at Esgeril. Surrounded by those in her corps, she 
seemed genuinely happy. And I sincerely hoped she was, despite my 
rejection of her romantic interest in me. It wasn’t that I didn’t like 
her. It was just that I’ d truly taken her evaluation of me to heart. 
Maybe once, I had been a girl who put on independence until 
someone came along to take care of me. But now, I wanted to be a 
woman who took care of herself and her dragon. Maybe someday I’d 
have a relationship t hat was equal parts give and take, but first I had 
to learn how to just be me.  
"When the Greens took to the skies," my father was still talking, 
"their agile maneuvering kept them out of harm’s way while 
distracting the Goblins from the final counter attac k." The Green’s 
cheers at this praise were more muted. They had taken the brunt of 
the casualties on the day. I guess the most agile group of dragons 
wasn’t fast enough.  
It put my teeth on edge to see Lewon sit there with his peers. 
Somehow he’d managed on ce again avoid any responsibility for the 
devastation he’d caused. Somebody in the camp was covering for 
him. I would make it my life’s mission to find out who and bring 
Lewon’s deeds to light.  
"Once the siege weapons were destroyed, the heavy Orange 
drago ns made quick work of the remaining forces." True to form, 
those dragons and their riders provided the most noise, stomping and 
beating against each other causing a ruckus so loud I thought the 
entire building would come down.  
225  Ash Rober ts 
 "Finally, the Blue dragons ou t-raced the retreat, while the others 
rushed healers and supplies to the wounded." Farean and I hadn’t 
been part of either effort, recovering as we were from her injuries in 
the battle, but you would have never known any of that from how 
she took part in t he Blues’ cheer.  
"Aside from the efforts of the whole, there are certain individuals 
that need to be especially recognized." I sat up straighter, and Farean 
stopped in the continuing Blue cheer.  
"She may have been slow to accept her role and we were defini tely 
slow to accept her into your ranks, perhaps me most of all. But at the 
Battle of Tulta, Princess Kalia and Farean proved beyond argument 
that they have the skills, the wits, and the grit to be called 
Dragoneers. If not for them, vital help would have taken much 
longer to arrive, and only they were able to stay aflight in the face of 
the Goblin siege and discover a way to destroy their advantage. If not 
for their brave actions, Tulta would have ended much differently."  
More cheering.  
"Not as much as there should  be". Farean whined.  
"Enjoy  the praise  and admiration  of those who recognize  our worth.  Don’t  
worry about the others.  Most of them have been poisoned  by Lewon’s  lies. They 
will understand  eventually. " 
"They should  understand  now. We saved them." 
"I know," I said, apparently aloud, because Esgeril turned and 
stared at me.  
"You should  just mate her and be done with it. "Farean said, catching my 
response to that stare. " That’s  the dragon  way". 
"I’m not a dragon. And it’s not that simple."  
She let out  a little huff. " That’s  not what your heart says. You desire her". 
"Maybe,  but I can’t be distracted  by that right now. "I turned my 
attention back to the speech, but Father wasn’t talking. Instead, he 
was glaring at me with an outstretched hand. All eyes were on me.  
I looked around, unsure of what had happened while Farean and I 
were arguing.  
Esgeril caught my eye and gave a nod towards the podium.  
Royal Dragoneer   226 
 I stood and scurried to the front as everyone watched.  
I found myself next to Father, unsure what to do.  
"I was slow to accept my daughter as a Dragoneer," he addressed 
the crowd. "As I’m sure you all were. A thousand years of tradition 
broken by a young girl. But she has demonstrated skills and abilities 
that prove she is more suited for a life guarding our skie s with you 
than a life in the castle walls. And for her actions that day, it is my 
great honor to, by the recommendation of General Lutania and 
unanimous vote of the Council of Elders, issue the Golden Leaf to 
Princess Kalia of Kastea."  
I gasped. Murmurs w ent through the crowd. The Golden Leaf was 
the highest honor in all Darneta. Nobody had even received it since 
Father had been king. He smiled at me, gesturing me forward. I took 
a small step and gulped. He reached into his pocket a pulled out a 
pin. The g olden leaf glittered in the morning sun as he worked the 
point through the leather of my harness. After fastening the clasp, he 
stepped back, clapped his hands together, and applause erupted from 
the stands.  
I had finally made my father proud and been acce pted by my 
peers.  
But that isn’t what made me truly happy on that day.  
It was the glow of unconditional love and oneness radiating into 
me through my connection with Farean.  
The thing that made me happy was a dragon . 
 
 


 
 
Sign up to my newsletter for a free book  
 
To say that Authand yearned for adventure would be a lie. 
Life on his father's farm was hard - always too much to d o and 
never quite enough to eat  - but it was his and that suited him 
just fine.  
But sometimes life doesn't give us what we want. While 
hunting, Authand finds something unthinkable, a lone dragon 
egg. Imprinting on a dragon hatchling means his life will be 
anything but  ordinary. Especially when his father, the gentlest 
man he'd ever known, reacts violently.  
Armed with nothing more than his wits - and a dragon - 
Authand must find his way to the famed Dragoneers for a place 
to call home in a world that has little love for  a Black man or a 
feral dragon   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Sign up now  
 
http://bit.ly/feraldragon  

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ash Roberts  
 
 
 
 This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and 
incidents either are the product of the author’s imagination or are 
used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or 
dead, events, or locales is entirely coincidental.   
 
Copyright © 2020 by Ash Roberts  
 
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reprod uced or 
used in any manner without written permission of the copyright 
owner except for the use of quotations in a book review.   
  
 
 
 
To my wife, who believes in me more than I tend to believe in 
myself
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
It takes a village to  write a book. I couldn’t have done it without 
the help and support of my village.  
 
Monica, who is much smarter than me and taught me much of 
what I know about the craft, Chrishaun , Heather A and Heather 
D for letting me bounce ideas off of them, Ripley for phenomenal 
editing, Anna, who provided me with the kernel of the idea for 
this book, Riley for babysitting while I wrote, Inara for believing 
in me, and my mother for always enco uraging me, ever since 
the first time I wrote a story in the fourth grade.  

 
 
 
I woke from a nap I hadn’t intended to take to find the sun high in 
the sky. I was supposed to be meeting someone in the castle right 
now. I shouldn’t have gone out at all, but Elves are made of nature, 
and it calls to us. At least, that’s the excuse I would  give if I got in 
trouble. But I wouldn’t because I was the Princess.  
On the west side of the property, a large meadow separated my 
home from the city below. A hill gave a magnificent view of stone 
buildings and thatched roofs and farmland beyond it. It wa s as close 
to seeing the world from the sky as I wanted to get.  
I was nearly back to the castle when, a shadow sped across the 
ground, crossing mine. Large. Winged.  Dragon.  My heart raced, and 
an uncontrollable panic rose inside of me.  It’s just flying over. It won’t 
come back. But even as I thought it, the rider circled back, the huge 
Orange beast he controlled barrelling down on me. I ducked inside 
the nearest doorway, gasping for breath. Hidden in the cool darkness 
of its shaded overhang, my mind slip ped back to the day of my fifth 
birthday.  
My grandfather held estates in the south, close to the front of our 
war with the Orc’s kingdom of Glamhoth. My mother didn’t 
approve, but because it was my birthday, Grandfather let me ride 
with him as he made his rounds that day. On our way back, the horse 
suddenly snorted and balked. Grandfather spurred the animal on, but 
it almost bucked us off.  
While the mare settled back on all four hooves, I saw them. "Ooh, 
dragons," I squealed, pointing at the two winged -creatures low over 
the horizon.  
Royal Dragoneer   10 
 Grandfather tensed behind me. He yanked at the reigns. "Move, 
you drafted animal, or I’ll feed you to those beasts myself." He 
regained control of the horse and we galloped back to his house. I 
bounced in the saddle and grabbed tightly at the arm he held around 
me. 
"To arms," he shouted as we rode. "Orcs attack on dragons. To 
arms!"  
Farmhands streamed from the fields to the guardhouses where 
soldiers handed out swords, staves, and other weapons. Closer to the 
house, tradespeople assembled any tools at hand for defence, while 
children stacked buckets by the well.  
At the stables. Grandfather jumped off his mount before we even 
stopped. He pulled me down and carried me inside as easily as I did 
one of my dolls. We cut through the kit chens where the cooks were 
stripping the room of its knives and cleavers, sticking them into belts 
and holsters.  
In the sitting room, The Royal Guard surrounded my parents, 
swords pointing outward. They saw us and parted, making way. 
"Kalia!" Mother cried,  grabbing me, a terrified look in her eyes.  
"Get to the kitchens," Grandfather commanded. "You can hide in 
the root cellar. You will be safe there." He pushed through the guard 
and took down the polished broadsword that hung above the mantle.  
"Dad, no," Mo ther said. "Come with us."  
He held the weapon up, checking that the blade had remained true 
after sitting idle so long. "This is my land, and I will defend it," he 
said. "And defend you." Without another word, he was gone.  
The guards ushered us into the kitchen and pulled open the 
cellar’s hatch. Mother carried me towards it, but I squirmed out of 
her grasp. "My dolly," I cried. Guards reached for me, but I 
scrambled between their legs. My young mind understood there was 
danger. That was exactly why I had  to save it.  
I’d left it on the parapet, the low stone wall surrounding the 
second floor. It was the best vantage point of Grandfather’s 
property.  
11  
 As I stood at that wall, I saw my grandfather down below in the 
courtyard, raising his sword to an Orc mounte d on a huge green 
dragon.  
He swung at the beast, but it caught the sword in its talons. 
Another great claw flipped him into the air, his body crashing into 
the stone rampart. He did not move.  
"No," I cried. Hands grabbed at me, and I struggled, biting and 
kicking like my life depended on it.  
"Hush, child." The Captain of the Royal Guard held me tighter.  
I stopped struggling and fell limp in his arms. Tears fell freely as 
he took me back to my parents.  
"Lord Hollysword is dead," he told them somberly.  
I don’ t remember much more from that day. We spent hours in 
that cellar. Only the occasional crashing noise made it through the 
thick door. When it finally opened, the Captain looked down at us, a 
tall Dark Elf in Dragoneer garb standing at his side.  
"The fight is over," The Captain told us. "Thanks to this man and 
his dragon."  
The Dark Elf wore dark orange leather and a bloody bandage over 
his right hand. Father thanked him for his bravery and gave him 
money for a healer. But I knew he had to be bad to ride a dr agon. A 
dragon killed my Grandfather right before my eyes. I did not trust 
this man or the enormous Orange beast that paced outside our door. 
Dragons were killers. They were evil.  
And now, back in the here and now, a dragon was invading my 
home once again.  Was it an attack or some kind of pretense at help? 
Either way, I had to pull it together. I had to warn my parents, or at 
least the guards. I needed to move, but I stood there in my shadowed 
doorway, shaking for some moments before I found the courage to 
continue into the castle.  
I hurried to the wing where Father conducted business. I wasn’t 
exactly forbidden from being there. He just didn’t like "silly little girls 
running about." But I was neither silly nor running, I was on a 
mission.  
Royal Dragoneer   12 
 "If you don’t sen d more resources," a deep and scratchy voice 
said, "we won’t be able to cover the front. Fawla won’t be the only 
province to fall." Voices like that came from long years of yelling 
from dragon.  
The dragon wasn’t an attacker. Inside, my father held court wi th 
one of the Dragoneers of Darneta. They were our army who rode 
dragons into battle during times of war. I knew I shouldn’t eavesdrop 
just outside the door, but if I was to be a competent wife to the next 
king of Darneta someday, I needed to be informed. And the heavy 
oak door was slightly open anyway. It was an easy enough mistake. 
The thing weighed more than I did.  
I leaned closer. I could justify it all I wanted, but truly I was 
curious about the Dragoneer. I couldn’t understand how any man 
could spend his life around those terrible beasts. I wanted to catch a 
peak at someone that crazy.  
Father sat on his throne wearing the thick fur robes he reserved 
for formal occasions. And the man pacing before him was someone I 
instantly recognized. He was the same Draogoneer from that horrible 
day ten years ago. In place of the hand that been bandaged the last 
time I saw him, a metal hook protruded from a harness around a 
rounded stump. This must be Authand, the famous Dragoneer 
Colonel.  
He turned, glancing my direc tion, and I ducked back behind the 
door, holding my breath. Thankfully, he must not have seen me 
because he resumed his ranting about feed for his dragons.  
"You will have to make do," Father told him. When I peeked 
again, I could see him gripping the armre sts of his chair. "The 
Goblins have been destroying our crops. The people will revolt if I 
send food to dragons before Elves."  
"The people will die if the dragons aren’t up to fighting strength," 
the rider thundered back. "There is more to Darneta than you r cushy 
seat here in Kastea. You need to stop thinking of popularity and start 
thinking of survival. If you don’t, well, the other kingdoms have need 
of Dragoneers as well." I couldn’t believe Father let him talk like that. 
13  
 Each kingdom had its own corp of  Dragoneers. It had never 
occurred to me that a fleet might emigrate to another kingdom if they 
weren’t treated well. The idea felt almost treasonous. I would have 
had Authand thrown in the dungeons if he’d said such a thing to me.  
But Father stayed calm. He was angry; that was for sure. A wave 
of color flashed across his face and ears before disappearing. He took 
a breath and set his expression into a deep frown. Was Father just 
going to take the rebuke? A king shouldn’t accept criticism from 
commoners lik e this Authand. I put my hand on the door. If Father 
wouldn’t handle the matter, I would.  
"What are you doing?’ Mother demanded from behind me. "Etlin 
is waiting for you in the gardens." I would swear she was part air 
elemental the way she could sneak up o n people. She always told me 
ladies glide when they walk, not run from spot to spot like I did.  
I turned away from the gaping door casually. "I was on my way 
when I heard a noise. I think there is something wrong with Father."  
She shook her head. "More lik e you were nosing into private 
business." Her frown softened into a smile. "So, what did you learn?"  
I crossed my arms. "A Dark Elf is being belligerent towards 
Father. I don’t understand how someone like that could be in charge 
of our military."  
"They are  still Elves," she reprimanded my prejudice. "Never 
judge a person by their appearance. It is their character that counts. 
And you are one to talk about belligerence. Now go. Ladies do not 
keep their suitors waiting." She gave me a gentle push.  
"But Father -." 
"Your father can handle his own affairs without you. Just like you 
should be attending to your own affairs right now."  She held the 
same graceful poise as a moment ago, but her features looked harder 
now. It was an expression of patience wearing. I’d seen that look 
many times growing up, and it wouldn’t go well if I didn’t comply 
with her demands.  
I started jogging to the  courtyard.  
"Ladies walk," she called after me.  
Royal Dragoneer   14 
 I slowed down but still couldn’t manage the gentle footfalls of my 
mother. She was a true lady, and I was something else entirely. But 
she still loved me fiercely, and I her.  
Etlin slouched on the wide stones  surrounding the fountain, one 
hand drawing slow circles in the still water. I was half an hour late for 
our meeting, at least. He straightened and stood at my noisy entrance. 
A few short steps closed the gap between us. I was still upset at 
Authand and my  mother, but I melted a little at the sight of him in 
his starched breaches and silk shirt. I smiled as he kissed my nose.  
I tried to give a girlish giggle, but, as usual, my body refused to 
behave with the grace and poise I had supposedly been born to. 
Instead, it came out as a snort.  
Etlin laughed.  
My ears turned red, but I laughed with him.  
His arms slid down my arms, taking my hands in his.  
I could have stayed there, looking into his eyes forever. Or better 
yet, we could have snuck off into the shadows and really kissed. But, 
of course, that wouldn’t have been appropriate behavior for a 
princess.  
"Guess who I saw?" I asked him, trying to return my attention to 
the problem of dragons at the castle.  
"Hopefully somebody important, considering how late you w ere." 
He grinned.  
I stuck out my tongue at him. It wasn’t very regal, but I didn’t 
care. "A Dragoneer Colonel. He was meeting with Father."  
"He probably arrived early for the hatching," Etlin speculated. 
"The other races should be here soon. Makes sense th at he would 
want to arrive beforehand to greet them."  
"The cooks have been preparing food for days. Some of it smells 
really bad." I made a face as I recalled the thick smell of blood from 
the cow they’d drained for the Nightbloods. The Wolf -shifters would  
eat the meat, so nothing would go to waste. The Humans and 
Elementals ate ordinary enough food, but what Orcs ate was 
completely disgusting. It was bad enough that Orcs were allowed in 
15  
 the castle at all. But there was an official truce now, because the 
Goblins were the enemy of us all. If we didn’t stand together, they 
would outnumber and obliterate us. Still, the Orcs’ food should have 
been illegal. Bile rose in my throat, just thinking about it.  
This brought a fresh bout of laughter from him. "I’m sure t hey 
cringe at our diet as well. But I wouldn’t mind if they didn’t come. 
Then we could keep all of the eggs for ourselves."  
My stomach revolted at the idea. "They can keep the eggs," I said. 
"Don’t we have enough dragons?"  
"Come now, you can’t mean that. T hey’re our primary means of 
fighting the Goblins. You can’t be afraid of dragons forever."  
"They killed my grandfather. I watched it happen. I’m not afraid. I 
just won’t forgive." Of course, it was a lie. I’d been terrified by the 
mere shadow of a dragon e arlier. It had made me feel like that 
helpless five -year-old all over again.  
Etlin stood up straight. "A dragon is a weapon, just like a sword. 
One cannot blame the weapon for the wielder’s actions. Beside, that 
war is over. They’re our allies now."  
I hate d it when Etlin got all manly and lordly on me. As if I 
needed a lecture on dragons and swords and wars. He was so nice to 
look at and kiss, though. But I was completely not in the mood 
anymore.  
"Maybe you should leave," I said letting of or his hand.  
"But—I—We," he stammered, surprised I would turn him away 
after he’d given me such a fine argument against my silly girlish ways.  
"Go, really," I said, dismissing him. "We’ll talk later."
 

 
 
 
The hatchery lay just a mile east of the capital. Previous times the 
dragons had chosen Darneta for laying their broods, the other noble 
children liked to come down here to gawk at the infant dragons and 
the young Dragoneers chosen to care for them. I alwa ys had an 
excuse. I was ill, I’d injured myself, I was needed at the castle.  
But while my parents had humored me when I was younger, I was 
fifteen now. By this time next year, I’d be making preparations for 
my marriage to Etlin.  
So, I couldn’t avoid the du ties of state any longer. Instead, I was 
stuck in an underground cavern staring at a dragon egg. And if that 
wasn’t bad enough, there were dozens more where that had come 
from. They were tucked behind a large wooden door waiting for their 
turn on the raise d dais in the center of the cave, with several rows of 
stone benches forming a U around it. At least the royal box was 
toward the back, even if its elevation made me feel more exposed.  
Steam rose from nearby pools, making the air humid. No natural 
light pe netrated the underground space, so lanterns were suspended 
from the ceiling, casting a flickering yellow glow on everything.  
"When is it going to do something?" I asked, fidgeting in my seat. 
"We’ve been here an hour already." Pretending to be bored wasn’t  as 
easy as I’d hoped, when all I really wanted to do was flee.  
"You are witnessing the miracle of life, young lady." Mother 
patted my hand firmly enough to express her disproval. "A new soul 
being born into the world. It cannot be rushed."  
How could she f orget that one of those ‘miracles of life’ had 
ended her father’s? How could she be so forgiving?  
Royal Dragoneer   18 
 "But I don’t want to be here," I moaned. "I want to go home and 
witness the miracle of a soft bed."  
Mother glared at me, and I knew I had crossed a line. She gave me 
her disappointed nod, the kind that meant her reprimand would 
come later, in private, where I couldn’t make a scene. Father, 
however, had no such qualms. He turned in his chair and leaned in 
close to my face. I pulled back, but he grabbed my wrists —right 
there in front of the guards and servants, and even the commoners 
closest to our box.  
"You are the princess of Darneta, the greatest of the Seven 
Kingdoms," he said. "You have a duty to your people to be present 
for important events. You don’t have to like it. Now, sit and watch 
these eggs until something happens. And when they hatch, you will 
cheer and look happy."  
He turned back around in his seat, facing the dais with its egg. 
Mother passed me a cloth, and I dabbed my eyes, careful not to 
smear th e little bit of makeup I’d been allowed to wear. I glanced 
around. The guards stood stoic as ever, but the servants were doing 
their best not to look in my direction. A few rows ahead of us, I 
caught Etlin’s eyes. He looked away quickly, pretending to be 
intensely interested in the egg as it sat on the heated rocks.  
I took a breath, looking at it myself. I could do this. After all, it 
was just an egg. An egg couldn’t kill. That came later. When it 
hatched. But for now, it was just an egg, like the chicken e ggs I ate 
for breakfast, only larger.  
I studied it. It stood three feet high and could have been a rock if 
not for the perfect ovoid shape of it. Once, dragons had hatched in 
the wild, and the mother’s had arranged their eggs to look like natural 
formation s to protect from predators. I couldn’t image what 
predators a dragon could have.  
The egg wobbled.  
I sucked in my breath. It wouldn’t be just an egg much longer.  
It wobbled again, and a crack formed near the top.  
19  Ash Rober ts 
 I tried not to panic, gripping my seat with  both hands to keep 
myself from jumping up and running out.  
Silence fell over the crowd as we watched the egg fracture.  
The potential Dragoneers scrambled for position, the older teens 
pushing to get in front while some of the younger contestants sought 
shelter behind their larger competitors. Save for the Dwarves, who 
abhorred the very thought of flight, every kingdom race was 
represented on the hatching floor. A Wolf -shifter and a Nightblood 
shoved each other, nearly breaking into a fight.  
Then, a tapping  sound froze everyone, and a blue beak thrust 
through a crack in the shell. Tiny silver talons poked out next, 
pushing the opening wider. Finally, the egg split open in fractured 
pieces, and an infant dragon spilled from it.  
It pushed up on its wing claws and craned its head, looking around 
and screeching like one of Father’s racing hawks, except louder. It 
stood about five feet tall, and light filtered through the translucent 
wings to cast a blue pall over the nearby contestants. As it swung its 
head this way and that, crying for its mother, I got a good look at its 
odd-shaped skull.  
"What’s wrong with it?" I blurted.  
The entire audience turned at my outburst and stared. I felt my 
ears growing red. But there was something obviously wrong with the 
dragon. Us ually, the monsters had large, pointy, Elf -like ears. They 
didn’t have stubby little flaps.  
The dignitaries and hopefuls weren’t the only one whose attention 
I had caught.  
The baby dragon turned its head and looked at me, its eyes 
seeming to pierce my soul  and examine the very heart of me.  
"She". I heard a voice whisper behind me.  
I whirled around but there was no one there. Slowly, I turned back 
to the dragon.  
"She", the voice said again. " I’m a girl, like you. Don’t  worry;  my features  
will grow in time to look more like yours". 
Royal Dragoneer   20 
 I jumped up, sending my chair flying. I scrambled backwards, 
away from the dragon.  
It hissed and stumbled towards the stands, barreling through the 
contestants on the hatching floor.  
The spectators backed away, crowding the sides of  the viewing 
area. 
It – "I keep telling  you, I’m a she" – screeched again and started 
climbing up the rock wall that separated the arena from the royal 
viewing box.  
I cowered in the corner as the dragon approached. The little blue 
creature wasn’t as tall a s a grown man, but all I could see, in my 
mind’s eye, was the huge green dragon that had killed my 
Grandfather.  
"Get that beast under control," my father shouted.  
Guards closed in around my parents with spears pointed at the 
evil thing.  
"No, protect my dau ghter." He shooed them away. "It’s after the 
Princess. Save her." He pulled his own sword out. It was only a 
ceremonial piece with a gem -encrusted hilt and polished blade, but I 
appreciated the gesture.  
A guard stepped towards the dragon; it eyed him with tilted head 
as if trying to decide if he were friend or foe. Three more guards 
converged around me.  
The dragon saw this and leapt into the air. I thought it was going 
to fly away, but instead the creature tumbled back to the ground right 
on top of me.  
My b reath left me as its head pushed into my chest. I couldn’t 
move. This was it. Hopefully Grandfather would meet me on the 
other side to lead me to the Fields of Arman. Maybe there was a 
special section for those who had been killed by dragons.  
But instead o f chomping down on my head or impaling me with 
its sharp claws, the dragon turned towards the guards, rose to its hind 
legs and flapped its wings.  
I sucked in a breath as its weight lifted off my chest.  
21  Ash Rober ts 
 A guard thrust his sword, and the dragon backed from it, pinning 
me once again.  
"Get off of me," I gasped, bringing my arms up to my head. To 
the guards, I pleaded. "Help me."  
The dragon hissed and snapped at the men as they pressed closer. 
From under the beast, I could see their expressions as my father’s 
soldiers debated whether they could kill it.  
"Stop!" shouted a voice, echoing through the chamber. "Get away 
from that dragon," Colonel Authand commanded. He hadn’t been 
present at the beginning of the hatching, but he was here now. His 
Orange dragon, too l arge to fit into the hatching cavern, peeked its 
head through a door and trumpeted in displeasure.  
Why was he protecting a dragon that was attacking me? A growl 
of frustration rose up in my throat. " Wait,  had I just growled? " 
"I’m not attacking  you. "The whispery voice in my head said. " I’m 
keeping  you safe from these assassins ". 
The Colonel closed the distance to the seating area and leapt over 
the wall. He reached the guards surrounding us and yanked the first 
one away by his sword arm. The guard twisted  and swung at 
Authand, but despite his disability the Colonel dodged the blow with 
ease. 
"Back off," he said, and the other guards obeyed. "She is only 
protecting her rider."  
"Exactly.  You are my rider and it is my duty to save you from these 
scoundrels. " 
That was when I realized the voice I’d been hearing was the 
dragon hatchling. But its mouth didn’t move when it spoke to me. It 
was speaking directly into my mind.  

 
 
 
"But I can’t be a rider," I protested. "I’m th e Princess."  
Authand moved towards me and the guards gave him even more 
space. I could feel the dragon relax as it slid off of me gently. Relief 
washed over me. But the feeling was odd, alien, like it wasn’t my own 
emotion but something coming from outside  of me. I looked at the 
dragon and cocked my head in a silent question. It actually nodded, 
and I added that to the long list of really weird things that were 
happening today.  
Father and Mother came forward, cautiously, keeping well out of 
the reach of the  dragon. Mother looked worried. Father looked angry 
and perplexed.  
"Dragons don’t care about rank or society," Authand explained. 
"They choose their riders based on the qualities of a good companion 
and rider. Sometimes, they even see traits in us that we,  ourselves, 
cannot."  
"That’s  right, "the voice in my head said."  And you are the bravest  and 
most loyal in all of Darneta ". 
A large Orange dragon snout poked through the doorway and 
snorted.  
The Colonel shook his head. "Or sometimes, the dragon is just 
young and foolish and exercises poor judgement."  
I bristled at the comment, but I had to agree. This stupid animal 
had made a terrible mistake. I could not possibly be a good 
companion or rider to something I despised.  
Authand rubbed the dragon on her shoulde r, and conflicting 
emotions filled me. She seemed to be enjoying it, and that made me 
happy for some reason. But part of me wanted to push him away and 
Royal Dragoneer   24 
 do it myself. Which was crazy. How could I want to touch a dragon, 
let alone rub its shoulder?  
The drago n’s spiked tail stopped switching back and forth. The 
Colonel patted her twice and took a step towards me. He took my 
hand in his. It was dry and rough, scratching my delicate skin. He 
spoke barely above a whisper, words meant for me and no other. 
"Princes s Kalia, I know this may not be want you wanted, but this is 
a baby who needs you now. You have a duty to it, and your nation, to 
help her grow into an adult."  
I pulled away from him. He had no business telling me what I had 
to do. "But I can’t." My eyes p leaded with his.  
He shook his head. "You will learn." He gave a small smile and 
guided my hand to the dragon’s back. Loud enough for the crowd to 
hear, he said, "Now, the first step is to get your dragon out of the 
seating area and into the back. Korth wil l meet you there to get you 
started, and we can give the other eggs a chance to hatch."  
He pushed again, and I took a step forward. I had been so caught 
up in the events of the past few minutes that I had forgotten that 
everybody, literally every important  person in Darneta, and more 
than a few from the other kingdoms, had watched this drama unfold. 
I’d made enough of a scene for one day and decided that the back 
portion of this cavern would be more comfortable than the looks I 
was getting.  
As I passed my p arents, I glanced at them. Father scowled.  
I wanted to tell him this was his fault. If he hadn’t insisted I attend 
the hatching, none of this would have happened.  
Mother bit her lip. I caught her eyes, glistening with tears. The 
action of looking at me see med to burst the dam of her composure 
and she started crying.  
Father took her in his arms to console her. He looked up as 
Authand led us out of the royal box. Mother’s tears hadn’t softened 
him; if anything, he was angrier now.  
Fine, let him be angry. I wa sn’t exactly happy about it either.  
"Do you want me to eat him?" 
25  Ash Rober ts 
 "Shush, you. There will be no eating of anybody," I said aloud. 
The crowd pressed away from us even more.  
I stopped at the wall. I couldn’t climb over it in my dress without 
being immodest. The Colonel nodded me forward, but I stood 
motionless. He cocked his head towards the dragon door and seemed 
to realize my plight. He stepped behind me and scooped me up.  
I let out a shriek at being airborne but was back down on the 
other side a moment lat er. The crowd seemed to find it funny. Great, 
even more to be embarrassed about.  
"If they tease you, I will eat them". 
"I said no eating people." The tittering and murmuring ceased.  
Authand gestured me forward and we started towards the rear 
chamber again.  He leaned in close and whispered, "You know, you 
can communicate silently with her. It would be better to do so than 
to keep publicly reporting her infant whims about eating people."  
"How do I do that?"  
"Think of her and just say the words in your mind," he said.  
I took in the sight of this creature who had adopted me as her 
mother and thought at it, Can you hear me? 
"Yes, Kalia.  I can hear you. And please  don’t call me ‘it’. That hurts my 
feelings ". 
"Sorry". I looked down.  
"Practice this, both of you," Au thand said. "In time, you will learn 
to pay attention to only the thoughts directed at you, instead of 
hearing all of them."  
I cringed at the word " all." In spite of everything that had been 
going on, my thoughts had gone to Etlin when the Colonel had 
swoo ped me up in his arms. I had wished it had been Etlin’s arms 
instead.  
"Have you had a mating  flight with him yet?" 
Authand snorted. Wait. Could he hear her too? Could he hear me? 
Did being stuck with a dragon mean I had to give up any semblance 
of privacy?  "What is your name?" I asked her, forgetting to say it with 
my mind.  
Royal Dragoneer   26 
 "I am Farean.  We are going to be great friends. " 
I doubted that, but kept my mouth shut as we reached the rear 
doors. They were bigger than normal ones, but not quite as large as 
the one s leading to the throne room. Authand pulled them open 
effortlessly, and Farean and I were able to pass through side by side.  
We entered a cavern that dwarfed the hatching chamber. Fires 
dotted the floor clustered around caches of eggs. Acrid smoke 
cloaked  the ceiling and stained the walls. I pulled out Mother’s cloth 
to dab the beads of sweat forming at my brow.  
The enormous Orange dragon from the door earlier met us. I tried 
to back away, but with Authand behind me, I had nowhere to go. 
"This is Korth," I  was introduced, as if he were a lord or something. 
"He will help you get settled." Authand stepped past us and rubbed 
the behemoth’s muzzle. The man’s gaze seemed almost that of a 
lover’s. A small smile flickered across his lips before his features 
return ed to the gruff expression he usually wore. He shouted over to 
where some Elves and smaller dragons were huddled, "Bring out the 
next egg. C’mon. Let’s get this show moving before they all hatch in 
here."  
The group burst into a frenzy of activity as two gr een dragons 
lifted the egg from a nest and lowered it onto a cart. The Elves 
pushed it to the door and out to the hatching grounds. I watched as 
they arrayed themselves in a circle and hoisted the egg. The five 
holding it up seemed to struggle as the sixth  pulled the cart out. They 
lowered it onto the hot rocks and the taller one leaned in and 
whispered to the egg. That done, they hurried back inside.  
"Those are second year trainees. Next year, you might help with 
the hatching if eggs are laid in Darneta ag ain," Authand said.  
"Over my dead body." I glanced at the dragon hatchling beside me 
and gulped. To get the image of it eating me out of my mind, I 
focused on a tall boy as he broke away from the group. Authand 
waved him towards us. "This is Lewon, the hea d of his class."  
"What did he say to the egg?" I asked as he approached.  
27  Ash Rober ts 
 "He gave it permission to hatch. It’s not a science, as Farean just 
proved, but they generally wait until we tell them it’s show time."  
Lewon closed the gap between us and held out his hand in the 
typical manner of the outer provinces. I raised the back of my hand 
to his, hinting at the proper etiquette for being introduced to a lady. 
He looked at it like he wasn’t sure what he was supposed to do. My 
ears turned red and I lowered my hand.  
"I bet you wouldn’t  mind a mating  flight with him". My ear tips grew 
warmer, and Lewon broke out laughing. Great, I had a faulty dragon 
that anybody could listen in on.  
"Just the other dragons.  I can’t help what they share with their riders. " 
"Well, just shut up and stop embarrassing  me". I stomped off like a 
child, but it followed me as I headed away from the others.  
"She." Her ‘voice’ was filled with annoyance. " How would  you like it 
if I called you an it?" She turned her head towards Korth and nodd ed 
before returning her attention back on me. " He says we must go down to 
the pool, so you can wash me". 
"What?" I said, forgetting to think my words to her. "Do I look 
like a servant to you? I’m not " touching " you with a ten -foot pole." 
The Elves and drag ons paused their work of loading an egg as my 
voice echoed through the underground cavern.  
There were entirely too many dragons near me. Arenaline coursing 
through my body made me jittery, every nerve screaming for me to 
run. I glanced around. If an adult dragon couldn’t come through the 
door to the hatching floor, there must be another exit.  
Korth directed the events of the backroom as a young red dragon 
entered with the Nightblood candidate I’d seen earlier, and the 
second years brought out another egg.  
Behind the Orange beast, a tunnel large enough for even his bulk 
retreated into darkness. Flickering dots of light from torches on the 
walls receded into the distance.  
I headed in that direction.  
Farean followed me. " Where  are you going?  The pool is the other way". 
To add to her mental plea, she trumpeted and floundered around the 
Royal Dragoneer   28 
 dirt floor, kicking up a cloud of dust and getting everyone’s attention 
again.  
I picked up my pace, now as close to a run as my dress would 
allow.  
Farean bounced awkwardly as she t ried to gallop to keep up.  
Authand intercepted me before I could reach the tunnel, grabbing 
my arm and nearly yanking it out of its socket. "You’re supposed to 
stay with your dragon here at the hatchery until she is old enough to 
fly, and then you leave fo r the training grounds."  
I’d had enough of people grabbing me and pushing me around for 
one day. I pulled loose from his grip; more out of surprise on his part 
than strength on mine. "I am not sleeping on a dirt floor in what 
amounts to a stable. There’s b een a huge mistake. I’m not fit to take 
care of Farean. I’m going home where there are no dragons."  
I pushed past him and on to the tunnel.  
Lewon started after me, but Authand stopped him. "Wait," he 
said. "She won’t get far."  
"I’ll show him", I thought as  I plunged into the darkness.  
 
 
 
The tunnel wasn’t too bad. The torches provided enough light to 
see by as it sloped up towards the surface. Compared to the heat of 
the hatching cavern, though, it was downright damp and chilly.  
Heavy footsteps followed me into the darkness. I kept up my 
pace, hoping to put some distance between me and my pursuer.  
"Wait for me," Farean whined.  
I used it as encouragement to keep going.  
At last, daylight shone at the mouth of the tunnel. I stepped into 
the open air. Dark clouds covered the sun, and cold wind gusted 
around me. I considered finding my parent’s carriage and taking it 
back, but I was in enough trouble and didn’t want to add to it. 
Instead, I hurried down the path.  
Farean followed me through the woods and into the capital. Elves 
dove out of our way and ducked behind carts and barrels as we 
walked through the streets. I wished I could do the same, but there 
was no losing her. For her part, she ignored them. Her head swive led 
as she walked, like a newborn baby on its first trip outside, which 
technically she was. Her tail swung back and forth, occasionally 
knocking over barrels of salted fish or grain. I felt a raindrop and 
quickened my pace.  
I was huffing by the time I rea ched the castle. The guard at the 
door eyed me, no doubt wondering what I was doing home without 
my parents and in such a state.  
I made it back to my room and had to light a candle. The sky had 
grown so dark that I might have mistaken it for twilight. I ha d the 
presence of mind to close my shutters before collapsing on my bed, 
Royal Dragoneer   30 
 the oak frame creaking as it distributed my weight across the four 
posters supporting a silk canopy.  
I heard shouts from the floor below, but I couldn’t concentrate on 
them. I felt ic ky and needed a bath, but all I could think about was 
sleep. I kicked off my destroyed sandals but otherwise crawled under 
the wool blankets fully dressed.  
I woke to Farean’s whining echoing in my head. " Kalia,  I can’t reach 
you. Kalia,  why did you leave me? Kalia,  come here, pleeeeeeeease. " 
I squeezed my eyes together harder, as if that would keep her 
voice out of my brain. I brought a pillow over my head, but the 
psychic connection would not be silenced. And outside, I could still 
hear the rainstorm that had descended over the city, raging and 
matching my mood.  
A knock on my door brought me out from under my pillow. 
"Enter," I called, not caring how I looked.  
A maid, the same one from yesterday, shuffled in, her head down. 
"Princess, there is a dragon in t he main hall. It says that it’s with 
you?"  
"Do I look like I have a dragon?" I snapped. "Tell it to leave. It is 
not welcome here. And draw me a bath."  
She didn’t move. "The dragon won’t leave. The porter said it came 
in with you, making it your responsibi lity. Please, my lady. Your 
parents aren’t here, and it is scaring everybody."  
"It’s scaring me as well." I sighed. "Fine. I will send it away. But 
prepare that bath, I wasn’t kidding about that."  
"Kalia,  Kalia.  Where  are you? I neeeeeed  you". 
I took the s teps two at a time. "Oh, shut up. I’m coming." I passed 
a different maid, and she stopped at my outburst. "Not you. Go do 
something." She shook her head and continued up the stairs. Great, 
now I had the servants thinking I was crazy. I wished I was crazy; it 
would be preferable to owning a dragon that would eat me at the first 
opportunity, like the bears that the Orcs trained but were always 
attacking their masters.  
31  Ash Rober ts 
 I found Farean in the great hall with a few servants, their backs 
pressed against the far wa ll. As I stepped into the room, happiness 
washed over me.  
"Kalia.  You came back". "Oh, Kalia.  I knew you’d come back". 
I hesitantly reached out to her. My hand shook as it inched closer 
to her muzzle. " Please  don’t bite me. Please  don’t bite me." 
"I would  never do that". She pushed her nose towards my hand. It 
made contact, and I jumped back. I nervously glanced around the 
room, but the servants had vanished. I reached out again. I touched 
her snout lightly and, sensing no attack, allowed the full weight to  
rest on her. Farean rewarded me with another push of contentment.  
My stomach rumbled. Except it wasn’t mine. I looked at her.  
"What’s  wrong  with me? "She thought at me" . My middle  feels weird. " 
The stomach rumbling sensation came again. The good feeling 
from our contact evaporated. "You’re hungry, Stupid. Don’t you 
know what that is?"  
Farean shook her head. I kept forgetting she was only a couple of 
hours old.  
I grabbed a passing servant. "We need some food. What do you 
eat, Farean?"  
It better not be princ ess. 
"Meat.  "She blasted the word into my brain. I didn’t know that you 
could squeal telepathically, but I couldn’t describe it any other way.  
"Get her some meat," I told the servant. "Surely we have roast 
leftover from yesterday."  
He scurried off to the kitchens. I wasn’t sure how the cooks would 
react to the request, but they needed to hurry. My stomach was 
twisting in knots, like I’d never eaten before. Then again, I guess that 
was literally true for Farean.  
The servant came back carrying a banquet plat ter piled high with 
cuts of mutton and beef. He stopped at the doorway. The platter 
wavered as his whole body quaked, threatening to overturn the meal.  
"Come on." I waved him closer.  
Royal Dragoneer   32 
 His eyes flicked between the food he was carrying and the dragon 
whipping  her spiked tail against the wall. I gestured at him again, but 
he came no closer.  
I marched over to him and grabbed the tray, taking a moment to 
glare in displeasure. "Father will hear about this." My voice came out 
low and guttural as if I were using the  dragon’s voice box instead of 
my own.  
The servant hurried off, no doubt to change his underclothes, and 
I returned my attention to my giant, terrifying pet.  
I lowered the platter in front of her. "How do we do this? Do I 
feed you? Can you use a fork?" I r eally hoped I didn’t have to place 
chunks of meat in her mouth. Some of our dinner guests, even the 
nobles, used their hands to eat, but I hated handling the mutton. The 
greasy feel of it made me queasy.  
"Just leave it where I can reach it." 
I backed away and she came up to the plate. Opening her jaw, a 
serpentine tongue uncoiled and wrapped around the roast. Then it all 
disappeared back into her maw and swallowed the food whole. She 
went back for another chunk and repeated the process. Forget 
handling the meat; I might get sick just watching her eat.  
After finishing the mutton, she licked at the juices on the silver 
platter, holding it down with one talon as it clanked against the stone 
floor. Satisfied, Farean settled into lethargy.  
I got up and decided to  check on my bath. I’d barely taken two 
steps when Farean reached out with a front claw and grabbed me. 
Shrieking, I fought against her grip as she brought me back in close 
to her body."  Kalia,  sleep with meeeeee. " 
Still fighting her grasp, I replied, "No,  I have my own bed to sleep 
in." I didn’t want to mention the bath, guilt creeping in as I recalled 
the instruction to clean her that had sent me running away from the 
hatchery.  
She didn’t respond. I craned my head to see her double lids closed 
and her bod y heaving in long breaths. Her claw loosened, but not 
enough for me to escape.  
33  Ash Rober ts 
 I pushed a final time against the talon holding me down before 
giving up. I tried to make myself comfortable. I had no idea how 
long dragons slept, but it looked like I was goin g to be there for a 
while.  
I must have dozed off. One moment Farean’s snores filled the 
silence of the room. The next, the room echoed with noise —most of 
it coming from my father.  
"What is this beast doing in the castle? Get it out of here. Kalia, 
what is the meaning of this? Why are you sleeping on the floor?" He 
wasn’t alone. He had his usual entourage of servants and guards, but 
mother was nowhere to be seen.  
A member of Father’s personal guard, apparently too dumb to 
have learned from last time, stepped  forward and poked the dragon 
with the butt end of his spear.  
Farean lifted her head and yawned, showing rows of teeth, causing 
the soldier to take a step back. She finally released me, and I dropped 
to the floor with a gentle thump. I arched my back and t wisted, trying 
to wake up my sore muscled and numb limbs.  
Father watched me complete my stretches in silence. I faced him, 
unsure of what to say. He eyed my wrinkled and muddy gown and 
shook his head. "It’s a good thing your mother wasn’t feeling well 
and went upstairs. She would have a fit if she saw you like this."  
I smoothed out the bodice as best I could and returned his stare.  
"Why is there a dragon in the castle?" he asked again.  
"Because she followed me home," I said, crossing my arms.  
The smack caught me unprepared. I hadn’t realized he could still 
move that fast. The sound echoed in the empty room as my cheek 
burned.  
Farean roared, her hot breath blowing against me as she lunged 
forward, but father didn’t move or retreat. Even if she was a drago n, 
she was only an infant, and he was a grown man and King of the 
realm.  
Royal Dragoneer   34 
 "I need some time alone with my daughter." He said to those who 
accompanied him, and they filtered out of the room, leaving only the 
three of us. "Do you want to try that again withou t the smart talk?"  
I rubbed my jaw and kept quiet.  
"I don’t know what you are playing at, but you need to get rid of 
that thing. Nobility can’t be Dragoneers. It’s ridiculous. So, you have 
a choice to make." He crossed his arms. "You can have a dragon, or 
you can be my daughter. You choose."  
"Choose?" I asked, incredulous. "This wasn’t my decision. I don’t 
want to be a Dragoneer. I didn’t want to go to the hatching in the 
first place. But you made me go and then sat there and lectured me 
on duty. Well, gues s what. Now I’m stuck with this duty whether you 
want me to have it or not. The dragon stays."  
"It can’t stay here," he bellowed, waving his arms about as if 
swatting at invisible flies. "I have a kingdom to rule. This is not a 
barn or a hatchery, where an imals can roam around at will." Veins on 
his neck bulged and he huffed to catch his breath after expelling so 
much hot air. Farean trumpeted again, adding to the cacophony that 
assaulted my ears.  
"She won’t leave without me," I yelled back, standing on my toes 
and trying to get in his face. It wasn’t effective. I only came up to his 
chest. " Damn  Mother  and her short genes." 
"Then you will have to leave, too." He deflated a little as he said it, 
but the anger still flickered in his eyes.  
I froze in place. " Was he kicking  me out of my home? " Because it was 
raining outside. The thunder and lightning had died down a little, but 
I could still hear the heavy drops pounding out a rhythm on our tiled 
roof. Surely, he wouldn’t send me out in it. If mother had been th ere, 
she would have stood up for me. She wouldn’t let him treat me that 
way. 
"You can’t kick me out," I said, almost a plea. "It’s raining outside. 
Mother will never forgive you."  
"Your mother lost her father to a dragon," he said, looking past 
me to Farea n. "She and I already discussed this on the way home in 
35  Ash Rober ts 
 the carriage. She cannot live with such a beast. But you have a place 
at the hatchery. Authand is expecting your return." He didn’t say 
anything else. He just turned away and left me standing there.  
I blinked to keep the tears from falling, but they came regardless. 
A fat one rolled down my cheek and onto the silk of my sleeve. It 
didn’t matter. My clothes were about to get a whole lot wetter.  

 
 
 
Authand was ex pecting me. What had he said? " She won’t get 
far. "Well, I was about to show him. And my parents. They had 
shamed me into duty, and now they were throwing me out? I would 
show them too.  
I headed for the door and stumbled out into the rainy night, 
Farean ca vorting after me.  
We became thoroughly soaked before I discovered an overhang 
large enough to keep me from getting any wetter. I shivered against 
the buffeting winds while Farean hopped from puddle to puddle in 
the street, flapping her gossamer wings in a feeble attempt to fly. 
Despite myself, I smiled. At least one of us was having fun.  
A covered pedicab approached, forcing Farean to climb onto a 
nearby portico. The drenched Elf carrier gently lowered the handles 
to the ground and opened an umbrella before  opening the door.  
Etlin stepped out and huddled under the oiled cloth as the rain 
poured off onto the servant. Foolishly, I tried to hide; cowering into 
the shadows, but Etlin saw me and dashed over, the servant hurrying 
to keep the cloth in place. Under the protection of the overhang, 
Etlin waved the poor man off, and he promptly ducked into the 
servants’ entrance.  
"What are you doing out here?" Etlin pulled off his jacket and 
wrapped it around me. It was a formal affair with little lining for 
warmth, the  one he’d worn to the hatching, which felt like a lifetime 
ago. I continued to shiver but appreciated the gesture, none the less. 
"You’re a princess, for Farr’s sake. Not some peasant drowning in 
the streets." I was getting tired of people reminding me tha t I was a 
princess. As if that had anything to do with what I’d been stuck with. 
Royal Dragoneer   38 
 Being a princess hadn’t stopped my father tossing me out like 
rubbish. His precious decorum would allow me to catch my death 
mere feet from the hearth where he was undoubtedly  bundled near.  
"My father kicked me out," I told Etlin, expecting sympathy, or 
better yet, outrage.  
He shook his head, looking down as if ashamed to look me in the 
eye. "Go inside, Kalia. The door is right there," he pointed across the 
courtyard. "Go insid e and forget about all this dragon nonsense."  
I stared at the castle’s entrance. A mere twenty feet separated me 
from what my life had been a few short hours ago. I could do it. I 
could walk through that door and forget today had ever happened. I 
could go back to pleasing my parents and Etlin by being the perfect 
girl they expected me to be.  
"You would  leave me alone? " A voice asked, Farean’s snout peeking 
over Etlin’s head, her dragon eyes wide and terrified. It wasn’t the 
question that broke my heart. Or the look. It was the feeling. I could 
feel just what she felt, and it was so much more pain and fear than 
what I’d experienced when my father had shown me the door. I was 
nearly a grown woman, trained to command others and make my 
own choices. Farean was a  child who knew nothing of the world. I 
couldn’t abandon her, even as much as she terrified me.  
"No," I shook my head at Etlin. "I can’t leave Farean."  
"Yes, you can, Kal." He used my pet name, trying to manipulate 
me, to soften me, but it only hardened my  resolve. "You have to. For 
us." 
"What do you mean, ‘for us’? How does any of this affect us? You 
love me, and I love you. Our marriage has been arranged for years."  
"I do love you, Kal. You know that," he glanced away from me, 
frowning. "But this changes everything, don’t you see? Dragoneeers 
live a rough life. They’re constantly at risk and on the move, called to 
wherever the next battle is. That’s what having a dragon means. 
That’s not the kind of life I want."  
"So, you didn’t love me, then?" I said, lif ting my chin and staring 
him down. "You loved the life you would have as the king."  
39  Ash Rober ts 
 "Kal, that’s not fair."  
"Not " fair"?" I yelled at him. "Don’t tell me about ‘not fair.’ I did 
exactly what everyone told me to, playing the dutiful daughter, and 
fiancé, an d princess, and this is what it got me. My parents throw me 
out and you —what? Break up with me?"  
"No," he shook his head, rain dripping from his dark bangs. "My 
parents want me to break it off with you, but I came here to help you 
see that you don’t have t o do this. You can go back to what you 
were. We can go back."  
"But your parents love me —" I stammered, shocked and hurt to 
my core. " Oh no, that’s right. They loved Princess  Kalia,  not Dragoneer  
Kalia. " "Had my entire life been a lie? Did no one really care about me—not for 
what I did, or my title, but for who I was inside? " 
"I like your insides.  "Farean said. She was still looming behind Etlin, 
her wings folded over her head against the rain.  
I gulped. " Not helping. " 
"They do love you," Etlin said, but it wasn’t very convincing. "As 
do I. But if you choose this life, you’re not choosing us." He glanced 
away.  
Up to that moment, I had honestly believed in the power of love 
to overcome anything. " Gods,  I was such a fool." 
"Well, okay then," I said, and Etlin’s  eyes snapped back to mine, 
full of hope. "I guess that’s it." I pushed past him, crossing to stand 
next to Farean. "I suppose I’ll see you around."  
Colonel Authand, Father, Etlin —I’d been told what to do for the 
last time. This was my life. I would play b y my rules, not theirs.  
Etlin stood in stunned silence as the rain plastered his hair to his 
forehead and his clothes to his skin. He stared at me and my dragon, 
processing this surprise —my sudden change from someone who 
patiently and quietly did what what ever was proper and expected, to 
someone who could and would defy everyone around them.  
I almost see the pieces fall into place in his mind, preparing the 
speech he would give his parents, announcing that he’d taken out the 
Royal Dragoneer   40 
 trash like a good soon. The stor y would grow as he told our friends 
of the monster I’d become.  
Etlin opened his mouth and closed it again. I watched him stand 
in the downpour. I wanted to apologize, but part of me insisted I 
hold my ground. I’d say I was sorry, but only if he did first.  
"I can’t believe you’d choose this animal over your own kind," he 
said, gesturing at Farean.  
I pulled off his useless jacket and threw it at him. "If you are an 
example of ‘my kind, I want no part of it."  
"Fine!" he said. Clenching his jaw in fury, he cros sed to the 
servant’s entrance and yanked the door open. "We are leaving," he 
called to his servant. "Now!"  
I got a glimpse of the shocked servants sharing mead over a 
blazing fire. Were they already gossiping about me and my sudden 
descent into madness? I had no doubt I would be the talk of the city 
come morning. The Princess and the dragon. It sounded like a 
morality tale mothers would warn their daughters with.  
Etlin’s servant gulped the last swig from his mug and rushed out,  
trying to get the umbrella over Etlin, but there was no point now. He 
was soaked.  
"Stop it," Etlin commanded. "Just get me home."  
The servant nodded and opened the door to the carriage. Etlin 
placed a foot on the threshold and stopped, turning back to me.  
"Goodbye, Kalia. I don’t imagine we will meet again." He took his 
seat with an audible squish, and the door snapped close behind him. 
The servant took one last wary look at Farean beside me before 
grabbing the poles of the cab and heading for the gates.  
Farean leapt forward, chasing after the cab like a chicken after a 
lizard. I wasn’t sure if it was pure instinct, or if she was trying to 
terrorize the poor man, but the driver ran faster than any I’d ever 
seen pulling a heavy cart. Thankfully, when he turn ed the corner out 
of sight, my dragon lost interest like any toddler would, and came 
wandering back.  
41  Ash Rober ts 
 "My dragon.  "Those were strange words. But I had chosen her. 
Well, first she had chosen me. But I’d come around eventually.  
The rain had mostly stopped, bu t everything was wet and 
dripping. I slid down the wall and sat on the wet cobbled ground. It 
was starting to hit me just how much I’d lost. For all my bravado and 
anger, I didn’t know what to do. I was just a lonely girl abandoned by 
everyone and charged with the task of caring for something —no 
someone —that I knew nothing about.  
How would I feed her? How would I feed myself? And we 
couldn’t sleep in the courtyard like beggars. I slapped my hands 
against the wet brick, sending a wave of hot pain shooting fr om my 
palms up my arms. "Oww."  
Farean turned her attention from the fascinating dripping of a 
water spout. " That" "hurt". 
"I wasn’t trying to hurt you. I’m sorry. I’m just —I don’t know 
what to do. I’m supposed to take care of us both now, and I don’t 
even know how to take care of me."  
"I’ll take care of you". She climbed up the stairs to my side, and 
gently butted her head against mine, rubbing me with her skull. " See? 
Good rubs." 
"That’s  very nice, "I remembered to mind -speak to her. And it was. 
But it still didn’t solve our problem. " You have to understand,  Farean.  I 
don’t know how to be a Dragoneer.  I don’t even know how to live outside  a castle 
without  servants. " "You’d  be better off if we could somehow  break  our bond and 
find you someone  else. " 
She stopped rubbing me, staring at me with her huge birdlike eyes. 
I didn’t know if dragons could cry, but she looked like she was about 
to." You told the sad man and the angry boy you wouldn’t  leave me. You are a 
good Dragoneer  for me. The best for me. It’s why I want you." 
Well, at least someone wanted me, even if it was a dragon.  
I reached out and scratched the protective ridge over her eye, 
somehow knowing she’d love it. "We’ll figure it out," I told her, as 
she rumbled a dragon purr. "Together, we’ll figur e this out."  
Royal Dragoneer   42 
 Conflicting emotions boiled inside me, and I couldn’t tell where 
mine ended and hers began. So, I just stood there petting her as I 
tried to figure out a path forward that wouldn’t be disastrous for 
both of us.  
I caught motion in my peripheral  vision; Farean and I swiveled our 
heads towards it in unison.  
A dark, hooded, figure approached us.  
Instinctively, I moved in front of Farean to protect her, though I 
had no idea how or with what.  
"Stay back," I warned, "or I’ll —" I’ll draw a blank on wha t to 
threaten you with, apparently.  
Small, calloused hands reached up and pulled the hood back just 
enough to reveal the slender, familiar, face of my chamber maid.  
"What are you doing out here?" I demanded. "I thought you were 
some kind of attacker."  
She laughed. "Attacker? At the castle? Princess Kalia, you know 
that to get to this courtyard, you have to pass three different sets of 
guards."  
Farean leaned her long sinuous neck over my shoulder to peer at 
the maid, her snout close enough to sniff at the yo ung girl’s pores. 
To her credit, the maid took only one step back.  
"You remember Farean, I’m sure," I said.  
My maid nodded mutely.  
A sudden gust of wind knocked over a nearby barrel, sending it 
rolling, and Farean was off, chasing after it. She definitely liked to 
chase things.  
With the dragon some distance away, my maid found her voice 
again. Well, it looks like you were able to get cleaned up after all."  
I glared at her and she returned an awkward smile. I wanted to be 
angry with her but the ridiculousnes s of the situation caught up to me 
and I started to laugh.  
"Yeah, I guess I did. Apparently, dragons aren’t allowed in the 
castle."  
43  Ash Rober ts 
 "That’s a dumb rule." She smiled. It faded as the realization set in 
about what that meant for my future. "What will you do now? Will 
you go back to the hatching grounds and live with the other 
Dragoneers?" Was she worried about me, or her position as my 
maid? Father would probably just assign her somewhere else. She was 
good help, and he wouldn’t waste that just because he’d b anished his 
only daughter.  
"I can’t go back there." I shook my head. "Between the way 
Farean chose me and the way I behaved afterward, I don’t dare show 
myself. But where else can I keep a dragon? I have no idea."  
"My father is the royal swineherd," she of fered. "The barns are 
plenty big enough. Farean can stay there until you find somewhere 
more suitable."  
"She wouldn’t stay there without me," I pointed out.  
"Well, dad has an empty room now that I live in the maids’ 
quarters."  
Was she making fun of me, or trying to help? Because I’m not 
sure what would be funnier to a servant than her mistress living as a 
swineherd while she remained in the comfort of the castle. Still, I was 
pretty short on options and didn’t want to offend her. She was the 
only person who  had treated me decently since this whole dragon 
thing had happened.  
"Okay. I’ll figure out a way to repay you and your family. Thank 
you—" "Oh crap. I don’t remember  her name.  " 
"It’s Lunara, your majesty. I have been cleaning your quarters for 
over a yea r now."  
"I know. I’m sorry." Had it been that long? All the maids tended 
to run together in my mind. They all wore the same uniform and all 
sort of looked the same. Still, I should know her name.  
Lunara sighed. "It’s okay. I rather expect it at this point. " 
I started to protest, but she turned and disappeared back into the 
castle.  
"Come here, you," I called to Farean.  
Royal Dragoneer   44 
 She bounded over to me and attempted to push her muzzle into 
my hand. I backed away in fear, automatically, but she just kept 
coming until sh e got what she wanted. After a lifetime of avoiding 
dragons, it was going to take some getting used to being around one 
this much. But Farean was oblivious to my fear and prejudice. Either 
that or she was good at ignoring it.  
"Hey, can that giant nose of y ours smell pigs?" I asked, and she 
raised her snout into the wind, her lips curving up in a dragon grin.  
 
 
 
Farean’s cries, both audible and mental, woke me up before dawn.  
I rubbed the sleep from my eyes and wonder ed what time it was. I 
got up from my bed, if you could call it that. Pushing open a window 
overseeing Farean’s barn, I noticed that the sun wasn’t even up yet.  
The early spring air cut through the thin nightgown Lunara had 
left behind when she’d moved to the castle. I turned to retrieve the 
matching robe, but Farean let out another distressed Ka—li—a, 
stretching my name into three long syllables. I hoped this was some 
sort of phase. The first few weeks after the hatching had been tough 
for me emotionally, But after a week straight of being forced out of 
bed in the middle of the night, two, sometimes three or even four 
times, I knew I wouldn’t last much longer before I snapped.  
Obviously, the decision to leave the hatching grounds had been a 
mistake. But I couldn’t go back now. Too much time had passed. 
They might not even be there anymore. After the hatching was over, 
the Dragoneers went somewhere else to train, and I didn’t know 
where that might be. Father would know, of course, but he’d made 
his opinion o n the matter clear.  
I made my way through the dark house, careful not to wake 
Lunara’s father. Arriving at the stable, I lifted the heavy bar on the 
door and discovered Farean rolled over onto her side with a front 
claw pulling at her skull. Her two rear l egs were trying to join the 
fight too.  
"What are you doing?" I asked, inching closer to my thrashing 
dragon.  
"It hurts, " was all she would answer.  
"Hold still, I need to check your ear."  
Royal Dragoneer   46 
 She kept pulling at it, and I had to yank her front leg away to get i t 
free. In the passing month, Farean’s features had morphed to look 
more like mine. Dark blue scales had become pale and almost 
translucent. Her ears had lengthened and formed into a point. The 
process hadn’t been easy. Every growth spurt caused odd pains and 
scales to bind if she moved wrong. I’d taken to grooming her twice 
per day and still had these late night and early morning wakeups to 
look forward to.  
I found the problem. At the juncture between the ear and skull, 
one of her scales had pulled up and folded against her hide, twisting 
the sensitive part of the ear flesh.  
I gently lifted the scale and let it fall into place. The task complete, 
Farean’s cries immediately ceased. Since I was already up, I took the 
time to check for loose or damaged scales.  "This was a lot easier 
when you were smaller."  
"You couldn’t  ride me when I was smaller ." She had me there. In the 
past week, Farean had taken to the skies. At first, it was only short 
flutters through the air, like one of the chickens when the dragon 
spooked them. From there, she had worked her way up in skill and 
strength to the point where I’d risked a short flight with her two days 
ago. 
We made it mere feet off the ground before I lost my tenuous grip 
on her neck ridge and fell into the pig’s mud. The ron, Lunara’s father 
laughed at me as I spit the foul -smelling earth from my mouth.  
"From now, I’m staying on the ground," I told him. "If Elves were 
meant to fly, we’d have wings."  
In response, he had tossed a bucket of icy water over me.  
"What was that f or?" I sputtered, wiping brown streaks from my 
face. 
"I’m not letting you inside like that." He picked up a second 
bucket and dumped it over my head.  
I stormed off; trying to squeeze the dirty water from the rough 
hemp clothing I’d been reduced to wearing.  
47  Ash Rober ts 
 The next morning, a rawhide seat bound with rope greeted me at 
the breakfast, thrown over my chair. "What’s this?"  
"Something to make sure you don’t fall off next time," Theron 
said. "I’ve seen dragons overhead wearing similar. Theirs are 
undoubtedly bett er made. But this will get you started." He didn’t 
look up from his breakfast, not wanting to draw attention to his 
kindness.  
I spooned some of the meal into a bowl and sat across from him. 
How I missed hot breakfasts of steaming eggs topped with salty 
bacon, tarts, and pastries piled high plate. Instead, the tepid corn 
gruel crunched like sand in my mouth. And yet, this man with little 
money or food, had spent part of his hard work day making me a 
dragon saddle. Not only that, he’d been feeding, housing, a nd 
clothing me for a month, which was more than my father or Etlin 
had been willing to do, two men who supposedly loved me.  
"Theron, thank you," I said, a lump in my throat that wasn’t corn 
gruel. "But I’m not sure I should fly without training. It’s dange rous."  
He put down his spoon. "You are a Dragoneer now, Your 
Majesty. Dragoneers fly."  
I took a bite of thick porridge and swallowed it down, along with 
the lump. I didn’t want to cry in front of Theron. "I’m not a 
Dragoneer. I mean, I don’t feel like one.  More like a swineherd who 
just happens to have a dragon."  
"Fate chooses us, your majesty. I’ve found that fighting it brings 
nothing but unhappiness. And you are no swineherd, I assure you. 
The pigs don’t like you. You smell too much like dragon." He 
returned to his gruel.  
I stirred my spoon around in my bowl, his words no easier to 
digest than the food. He finished his breakfast and got up, putting his 
dish in the wash basin. On his way out to the pigs, he paused at the 
door. "Besides, you’ll have to fly to reach anyone with answers." 
With that, he plunged into the daylight, leaving me to my cold gruel 
and conflicting thoughts.  
Royal Dragoneer   48 
 Unable to stomach any more of either, I grabbed the makeshift 
saddle and found Farean sunning herself in the dirt. I dropped it ne xt 
to her snout, rousing her from her slumber. "You want to try this 
again?"  
It took me a bit to figure out the proper knots, but I soon found 
myself tied to a dragon’s back. I could barely move in the rigging, but 
at least I wouldn’t fall off this time. Farean reared up onto her hind 
legs and shook her back. I lost my grip and dangled backwards in my 
saddle, but I didn’t fall. "Stop that. Are you trying to throw me?"  
"It feels weird.  I don’t like it." She pouted but returned to four legs.  
"Well, get used to it, I’m not getting thrown off again like 
yesterday." She seemed to accept this and lumbered out to the street 
where should could get a better running start. Farean galloped down 
the lane and leapt into the air. With a powerful downbeat of her 
wings, we  were airborne. She kept low at first, in case the rigging 
didn’t hold. After completing a low circle around the farm, she 
pushed us higher and higher.  
Wind whipped at my face and hair, sending it in all directions. 
Brushing it when I landed would be a cho re. But if this was what 
flying felt like, it was a small price to pay.  
Then I swallowed a bug.  
I opened my mouth to whoop as we performed acrobatic loops 
over the city and a fat horsefly went straight inside. I felt the insect 
impact the back of my throat , and I started coughing. But instead of 
dislodging the loathsome creature, the hacking pushed it further 
down until I had no other choice but to swallow. I continued 
coughing and pounded on my chest, hoping to spit it back up.  
"What’s  wrong? " Farean turne d her head my direction, but her body 
followed and she banked hard right, sending me sideways and both 
of us heading head -first towards the ground.  
"Pull —"cough"—up, pull up."  
She returned her attention to the task at hand and we leveled out.  
"Pay attentio n to where you’re going," I scolded her. "You don’t 
need to look at me when we mind speak."  
49  Ash Rober ts 
 The beating of her wings slowed, and we dipped in the sky. I 
started to stay something, but she maintained the new altitude. " I felt 
you coughing  and got worried ". 
I pushed an image of hugging her, safely on the ground, and I 
could feel her body vibrate in the guttural growl she gave when 
content.  
"I just swallowed a bug," I admitted, glad no one could see my 
ears turn red. Not that anyone could have told with all th e windburn 
I was getting. Note to self, get some kind of hat or mask for flying.  
"Lucky.  "Farean flew faster, gaining confidence. " Bugs are tasty." 
I laughed. There hadn’t been much opportunity for mirth in the 
past month and it felt good to let it out. "I ’ll try to save it for you 
next time." The thought of trying to save bugs in my mouth for my 
dragon made me laugh even harder, doubling me over the saddle 
snorting and heaving for breath.  
Farean just shook her head and made another pass over the city.  
When  I finally regained control, the sun was getting low, and I 
directed her to land, skimming just over the chicken pen just to see 
their reaction.  
The rest of the week had been like that as we learned how to fly 
and navigate the air. And fortunately, I hadn’ t eaten any more bugs.  
As beautiful as that day was, it left me with a horrible, aching 
sadness. Farean was made to fly. She was born to be a dragon and 
spend her life doing dragonish things. It came naturally to her. But I 
was holding her back. Not just h er flying with my awkward guesses at 
how to ride, but with all of it. Her cries in the night kept me reeling. I 
never knew what to do and lived in constant fear that something 
would happen to her and it would be my fault. I hadn’t been trained 
as a hatchli ng candidate or a Dragoneer. I’d been raised to follow my 
duty and rule a country. This morning, it had been as simple as 
popping her scale back into place, but as she grew bigger, it would 
only get more complicated to care for her. And as much as I’d grow n 
attached to her —really attached —I couldn’t bear the thought that 
Farean would live as a lesser dragon because of me.  

 
 
 
I was beginning to forget my old life in the castle as a princess. 
Even the fact that I tho ught of it as "my old life" was strange. It 
seemed almost like a dream and flying on Farean had always been my 
reality. But then Lunara brought my old life to the forefront again, 
delivering a letter from Colonel Authand, now at the training grounds 
to the  West.  
 
Princess  Kalia,  
As a result of your alternate lodging arrangements, you missed 
the call to come to Tulta with the others. Raising a dragon 
hatchling for the first month on your own isn’t optimum, but 
given your unusual circumstances, I allowed it. Training a flying 
dragon, however, is another matter. Collect your belongings and 
meet Lewon at the castle for further instructions. You will follow 
him back to training camp tomorrow at first light.  
Colonel Authand  
 
Looking up from the missive, I asked Lu nara, "I don’t suppose 
you want to go, do you?" She shook her head; I couldn’t blame her. 
I’d never seen the training grounds. Until a month ago, I’d barely 
been outside the castle walls. I had just started to get used to my life 
as an exiled princess. The ron made me help on the farm, but he still 
treated me like royalty. Lunara had become something of a friend, 
something I’d never really had before. And now, here was the 
Colonel ordering me around like a servant. He could have at least 
said, "Please, colle ct your belongings." Or, "You can follow him back 
if you want." That would have been polite.  
Royal Dragoneer   52 
 "Tell them I’m not going." I crumpled the letter into a ball and 
shoved it into a pocket. I crossed my arms and waited for Lunara to 
scurry off with the news.  
She didn’t move other than to match my pose. "The Dragoneers 
don’t make requests. You need to go. Lewon is already at the castle 
waiting for you."  
"But your father needs my help here." I glanced at Theron. We 
were in his open -air workshop, and he was busy repa iring a trough 
that had sprung a leak.  
He looked up from his work. "I have to fix most of what you 
‘help’ me with. If you stay, I going to start charging you rent." Having 
said his piece, he returned to the wood.  
I pursed my lips and shook my head. "Well, then. I guess I’m 
going." I thought about what happened the last time I’d been at the 
castle —the confrontation with my father and then Etlin. I did not 
want to go back there. At all. But I felt stronger now somehow —I 
had changed since then —maybe even becau se of their rejection. 
Though I hoped I wouldn’t see either of them, or my mother, I 
wasn’t afraid to anymore. But I certainly wasn’t taking Farean. "Stay 
here," I told her. "I’ll be back tonight, and we will leave to meet other 
dragons tomorrow."  
"Okay ". She rolled over in the dried mud of the pen she had co-
opted  from the pigs.  
I sighed; if we were going anywhere, I’d have to bathe her in the 
pond. I wasn’t about to introduce myself to other Dragoneers on a 
muddy beast.  
"But bring me something  to eat. All this pork is getting  boring ". 
"Don’t be rude," I scolded her, glancing at Theron, who, of 
course, couldn’t hear her. "We’re guests here."  
"Sorry. " Her voice sounded more petulant than remorseful.  
That was something I’d have to work with her. " Oh, gods. When had 
I become  my mother? " 
I turned my attention back to Lunara, who waited with her arms 
still crossed.  
53  Ash Rober ts 
 "Don’t worry too much," she said. "She’s still young. Besides, I 
lived here for fourteen years, and pork for dinner every night does 
get old."  
"She st ill needs to learn some manners. Wait! You could hear our 
conversation?"  
Lunara lowered her head, but otherwise gave no indication of 
hearing me. She turned to leave the workshop, and I followed after 
her. "How did you know what Farean said?"  
"It’s a gift." She kept her voice low, as if sharing a secret that she 
didn’t want others to hear, even though we were the only ones 
around. "I’ve always been able to hear them. I wanted to be a 
Dragoneer, but father insisted I become one of the court maids 
instea d." 
It suddenly struck me that you didn’t have to be a princess to get 
stuck in society’s expectations for you. I grabbed Lunara’s hand, and 
we both looked down, shocked. But I didn’t let go. "I’ll see what I 
can do about getting you to the next hatching. Maybe you can be one 
of my mother’s ladies in waiting and ‘accidently’ bond with a dragon 
like I did."  
She looked up into my face, "I couldn’t impose like that."  
"Come on. I’m going to need a friendly face at this training camp."  
She smiled and dropped my hand. We walked the rest of the way 
to the castle in silence as we dealt with our own thoughts about the 
future.  
Thankfully, Mother and Father were away for the day on 
diplomatic business. The guards at the gate and doors let us pass 
without comment, thoug h I could see them eyeing each other as I 
passed. Was I still the gossip of the castle after all this time? Funny, 
because I barely thought of the people here anymore.  
Lewon lounged in the receiving room with his boot -clad feet 
propped up on an antique ben ch. When we entered, he stood and 
held out his hand. Remembering the embarrassment from last time, I 
shook it. "So, we meet again," I said. "You must be one of the 
Royal Dragoneer   54 
 Colonel’s favorites to get to come retrieve me." I had meant it to be 
funny, or sarcastic, b ut I instead it just came out mean.  
He recoiled at the remark, plastering a fake smile on his face as he 
said, "Most of us don’t get to do whatever we want without 
consequence."  
"I’m sorry. I didn’t mean it like that." I tried to backtrack. "It’s 
just—you witnessed my meltdown at the hatching, and I’m not 
proud of it. It’s something I’d like to forget."  
Lunara arched an eyebrow at me, fidgeting with desire to ask 
about that. I thought the castle gossip vine would have delivered that 
story to her weeks ago, but apparently not. Most likely, Father had 
forbidden those in our party from speaking of it. " Did he know where 
I’d been for the past month?  Did he even care?" 
Lewon just kept smiling, but it seemed a little more genuine now. I 
liked how his smirk brought  out his dimples. He had nice hazel eyes 
and dirty blonde hair. He broke eye contact and looked downward 
towards the floor. At least, I hoped it was the floor. He just as well 
could have been checking out my chest. "You can try to forget," he 
said. "But no ne of the other Dragoneers are likely to let you. I mean, 
I saw it, but"  everyone " heard about it. It’s literally been used in training 
as a precautionary tale."  
My ears reddened. Great. If I did go to this training camp, I would 
be surrounded by peers who  had already judged me.  
"Have you found a place in the city to stay tonight?" I tried to 
change the subject.  
"Not yet, Your Majesty. I wanted to make sure I didn’t miss you 
when you arrived. But I’ll probably stay at the Tooth and Nail. I 
know the owner."  
I’d heard rumors about the place. It was owned by a Nightblood 
and didn’t have the best reputation.  
But I didn’t say that. I was trying to make a good second 
impression. "Please, call me Kalia," I said instead, batting my lashes. I 
was terrible at flirting , and I hadn’t really meant to. But Etlin had left 
me weeks ago, and I’d had no contact with boys my age since. "Have 
55  Ash Rober ts 
 you had anything to eat since you arrived? Flying always makes me so 
hungry."  
"No, I haven’t," he said, giving me a real, genuine grin fin ally. 
"And flying makes everyone hungry. It’s the exhilaration and the 
energy it requires to sync perfectly with your dragon."  
"Exactly!" I smiled back. Now we were getting somewhere, and it 
was so nice to talk to someone who understood what it meant to ri de 
a dragon. I turned to Lunara. "Please, take Lewon to the kitchen and 
get him something to eat. And grab something non -porky for Farean, 
if you can. Mutton perhaps? I need to get a few things from my 
room, and then I’ll be heading back to —where I’ve been  staying." I 
hoped Lunara would forgive me for not wanting to say, "the swine 
farm." "How about if I meet by the gates in the morning," I 
suggested to Lewon. That way he wouldn’t see where I’d been living 
and gain one more story of my spiral into peasantry  to tell the other 
Dragoneers.  
"Um, okay." Lewon said, looking worried. "But if you don’t show 
up, it will be my hide. My instructions were not to let you out of my 
sight once I found you."  
"I will be there with my dragon," I promised.  
"Follow me, sir." Lu nara curtsied to him and pointed in the 
direction of the kitchen. He followed eagerly, and as they crossed the 
threshold, I heard my former maid ask, "So what did the princess do 
at the hatching?"  
I shook my head and moved in the other direction. It felt b oth 
strange and familiar to be in my old home, like I was a ghost visiting 
a past life. Even the servants I passed ignored me, as if I were a 
phantom or a shadow. They probably didn’t want any liability or 
blame for me being there when my parents were away . But they 
couldn’t exactly kick me out either. At the top of the stairs, I 
detoured to the baths. There was no way I could pass up this chance 
to revel in hot water and the scented soaps that my mother always 
bought. I turned on the water, and then went t o my room. It was just 
as I’d left it, complete with the covers thrown back from when I’d 
Royal Dragoneer   56 
 been summoned downstairs to tend to Farean. Mother hadn’t even 
let the maids in? That seemed odd.  
I sat on the bed, trying to decide what I needed to pack. I 
absentmi ndedly ran my hand over the soft fleece of the bedcovers. 
The sensation was a stark contrast from the rough wool I’d been 
sleeping under. " Blanket ", I thought. " Definitely  packing  this blanket ". 
 
 
 
Lunara found me  dozing in the bath. "I finished packing for you," 
she said as she set a towel on the tub’s edge.  
"You didn’t have to do that, I was going to finish."  
She shook her head. "I did if you wanted to get back before dark."  
"Well, thank you. I was in here a litt le longer than I meant to be." 
I held up my pruney fingers.  
"I know." She smiled. "The baths are of my favorite parts of 
working in the castle. I’ll meet you in your room," she said, leaving to 
give me some privacy as I dried off.  
Back in my chamber, she h ad laid out a few clean dresses next to a 
large sack bag. I had never seen it before. When I traveled in the past, 
I’d used expensive and heavy cedar trunks to cart around our 
mountains of clothes. She must have gotten the bag from one of the 
other servant s. She was such a good maid. I’d have to put in a good 
word for her with Father —I stopped in my tracks, marveling at how 
easily and quickly I’d fallen back into the thought patterns of an over -
privileged princess. I wasn’t technically a noble anymore. Luna ra 
wasn’t my servant; she was my friend. And Father couldn’t care less 
about my recommendations. Being at the castle again was playing 
strange tricks on my mind. I needed to get out of there.  
As Lunara helped me lace up my corset, she said, "You are going 
to need pants for riding Farean. And for every day. I don’t think 
Dragoneers wear dresses much."  
"I don’t own any pants," I groaned. "All a princess is supposed to 
wear are dresses. And gods forbid I ever get them dirty."  
Royal Dragoneer   58 
 She started to speak but I held up  a hand, placing it on her 
shoulder. "I appreciate being able to wear your clothes at your 
father’s, but you are three inches taller than me and bigger in the 
chest." I looked down my dress. It felt odd to be wearing one again, 
but at least it fit without stepping on the hem or using a belt to keep 
it from sliding off. "I’m sorry, but your clothes look ridiculous on 
me." 
"Yes, they do." She grinned. Then her face grew serious "Your 
parents just arrived home. Wouldn’t you like to talk to them before 
you leav e?" 
"Um, no!" I snapped, panicking and drawing the thin rope that 
closed the bag, ready to take it and run. "Do they know I’m here?"  
"Not yet," Lunara said. "But they will soon enough."  
"I’m not sure they want to talk to me." I frowned. She grabbed my 
bag and led me down to my parents’ sitting room. As I entered, 
Father looked up from the scroll he was reading. His eyes burned 
with anger but he said nothing. Instead, he brought his gaze back 
down to what he was reading, as if ignoring me would make me cease  
to exist and ruin his perfect family.  
Mother saw me and rushed to her feet. "Oh, Kalia, we’ve missed 
you so much." She wrapped her arms around me in a bear hug that 
threatened to cut off my ability to breathe. I hugged her back, 
lowering my head to her sh oulder. I willed myself not to cry, only 
partially succeeding.  
I looked up briefly to where my father continued ignoring me. 
"One of you has at least," I murmured.  
She pulled back slightly and studied my face. "What was that?"  
"Nothing," I lied. I didn’t s ee the point in starting an argument. "I 
just miss you so much."  
"Then come home, silly." She rocked us side to side as she spoke, 
providing a cadence to the singsong quality of her statement.  
"Father won’t let me." Why did my mouth refuse to cooperate on 
Mission: Don’t Start an Argument?  
59  Ash Rober ts 
 "Of course, he will." She turned us to the side and craned her head 
towards Father’s chair. "Won’t you, dear?" In answer, he shook the 
slack from the scroll and continued reading. She seemed to take this 
as an affirmation.  "All you have to do is get rid of that pesky dragon 
and everything will go back to normal."  
I pulled away from her. "I’m trying to. But I resent the idea that I 
am only worth your love if I’m capable of getting rid something. 
Something that only happened because FATHER made me go 
somewhere I didn’t want to. This is really his fault."  
From behind the parchment, my father growled. I took a step 
back from Mother, crossing my arms over my chest. "Sometimes 
things happen and we have to deal with them. You taugh t me that 
lesson. Why does it apply to me and not to you?"  
"Don’t you take that tone of voice with me, young lady." Her eyes 
narrowed. She leaned forward with her hands on her hips. "I will not 
be sassed by my daughter."  
My arms exploded into the air. "Wel l, it’s a good thing that Farean 
keeps me from being your daughter anymore." I stomped to the door 
and slammed it closed in the most unladylike fashion I could muster. 
I couldn’t believe they were being this way. Well, if they didn’t want 
me, I could live without all of their stupid rules anyway.  
Lunara stood in the hallway with my pack. She studied her shoes 
intently. "I -" 
"Hold that thought." I held a finger up. I marched back to the 
door and pushed it open. Mother hadn’t moved since my outburst 
and Father looked up from the scroll again. "And another thing. You 
should promote Lunara. She’s a great maid. Plus, she took care  of me 
when you wouldn’t." I started pulling the door back closed but 
paused. "Not that you care about that." I slammed the door for the 
second time in as many minutes.  
Lunara’s ears were completely red. "You shouldn’t have done that, 
your majesty."  
I shoo k my head. "It’s the least I could do for all you’ve done for 
me." I looked down. "I just hope I didn’t get you fired instead."  
Royal Dragoneer   60 
 "I really do appreciate everything you and your father have done 
for me, and I promise to do what I can to get you an in with th e 
dragons."  
I didn’t think I was going to get any more conversation from her, 
so I changed the subject. "Alright, let me take my bag so you can get 
back to work, I’m sure you’re behind from having to come fetch 
me." 
She gripped the strap and then let go ov er it. She slid it off her 
shoulder and handed the pack to me. The weight surprised me, and I 
almost dropped it. I recovered and slid it onto my back. My knees 
protested the addition but I locked them into place. Lunara carried it 
so effortlessly; I was em barrassed that I was so weak compared to 
her. 
She smiled and gave me a warm hug, whispering "Thank you," in 
my ear. I wasn’t sure what for, though. It was she who had helped 
me. 
I stood in the corridor for a moment, processing the realization 
that I was le aving my home for good. This time I wasn’t being 
thrown out. I was choosing to leave. Suddenly, the doorknob across 
the hall rattled, and I barreled toward the back servants’ stairs, taking 
them two at a time, my gear on my back threatening to tumble over 
me. 
At the bottom, I glanced over my shoulder to check if I’d been 
followed. And I walked right into Lewon.  
"Oomph." Off balance and propelled by the heavy carpet bag, I 
didn’t just walk into him; we collided with a solid smack. My body 
literally plastered  itself against his, and then seemed to cling there for 
a moment before it decided to bounce off, hurling me backwards. 
Instinctively, he put his arms out and around me to catch me. Which 
worked. It worked very well indeed. I was captured by muscled 
biceps  and pinned against a well -defined chest. Unlike Etlin, Lewon 
was obviously accustomed to hard labor. I caught my breath, looking 
up at his stubbled chin. His silk shirt fell slightly open at the neck 
61  Ash Rober ts 
 right where my face was, and he smelled —he smelled like  oiled 
leather and the earthy scent of dragons.  
"I—my parents —I have to get out of here," I stammered.  
Slowly and almost reluctantly, he removed his arms from around 
me, a strange look on his face. "You’ve had a bath. And you have a 
dress on that actually fits." This time I was sure he was checking out 
my chest. "You clean up nice." He smiled, his dimples winking at me. 
"I almost didn’t recognize you."  
"Yeah, well, I am a princess," I said. "We’re raised to clean up 
nice."  
"Of course, Your Majesty," he said , his back gone stiff and his 
smile gone.  
"Oh, for Farr’s sake. Will you knock it off? I have a dragon just 
like you, remember? Everybody has made it obvious that I can’t be 
nobility and a Dragoneer. This is my new life now. I’m not above 
anybody else."  
"Fair enough," he said. "I’ll try to remember that." He didn’t relax.  
"Sorry for being curt. You surprised me. Guests usually aren’t 
allowed in this part of the castle."  
"I was exploring the castle when I heard shouting."  
I grimaced. Somebody overhearing fam ily business ranked as one 
of the few things could possibly get my parents madder than they 
already were "No, it’s fine. I was just heading back to Farean."  
"I’ll walk with you as into town," Lewon said. "If your mystery lair 
lies in the same direction, th at is." " My mystery  lair?" Oh, I really 
couldn’t let him know it was a pig farm now.  
"They are in the same direction," I said, feeling glad they were. 
"But what about your dragon?"  
"Calen will find me when he’s ready," Lewon laughed. "He got a 
whiff of a f emale dragon in heat just outside the city limits. He 
couldn’t get back there fast enough after he dropped me at the 
castle."  
I did not know how to respond to that. Farean was my 
companion, my dragon, but I hadn’t even thought about her mating 
Royal Dragoneer   62 
 someday. And  how did that work when you had a telepathic and 
emotional link with the creature mating? Or in reverse? What about 
me when I’d been pressed up against Lewon. Had Farean felt that? 
"Oh my god, this is not good." 
"So, can I accompany you?" Lewon asked,  a glint in his eyes as 
they stared into mine.  
"Yes, of course, it’s a date." I clapped my hands over my mouth, 
realizing what I’d just said. I pretended to wipe my mouth and let my 
hands fall back to my side. "Not a date. Just an evening stroll."  
I was bl ushing. I could feel the heat on my face. I could feel the 
heat other places as well. What had gotten into me?  
"You’re cute when you blush," Lewon said, reaching out to brush 
a tendril of my hair away from my pink cheek.  
My eyes grew wide. I couldn’t breat he or move a muscle. Lewon’s 
look was difficult to read. His body arched over mine, as if trying to 
protect me from the rest of the world. His eyes glinted with 
something wild yet determined, and his mouth curved into a sexy but 
still boyish smile. For a m oment, I couldn’t tell if he was happy or 
frustrated with me. I took comfort in thinking maybe he was just as 
confused as I was.  
I exhaled slowly, and I counted backwards, using all the tricks my 
etiquette tutor had taught me for calming down in a tense si tuation.  
It must have worked, because he blinked and moved a step back 
from me.  
"Shall we go?" I asked, gesturing towards the servants’ back exit.  
"Of course. Here, let me take that." He reached for my bag, but I 
pulled away.  
"I can do it. I want to learn to carry my own weight."  
"Good," he said, giving me a friendly smile. "Because as a 
Dragoneer, sometimes you have to carry your weight and your 
dragon’s. Not literally, of course. That would crush you. But you 
know what I mean."  
63  Ash Rober ts 
 And I really did. Caring fo r Farean was a burden, hard labor, and a 
challenge all rolled into one —but I was determined to do what was 
best for her. No matter what.  

 
 
 
During our evening stroll, Lewon told me about his life growing 
up on the outer edge of Darneta, almost to the back woods of Fawla. 
I just listened. I couldn’t really compare my life to his. What would I 
say? That I had lived a sheltered life in a castle and caught Farean’s 
attention by acting like a brat? He already knew that.  
The road to the Tooth led to the outskirts of town, almost to the 
farmland. My pig farm home was just a bit beyond it.  
"So, what are you doing living all the way out here?" Lewon asked. 
"Surely your father could provide better facilities for his daughter a nd 
her dragon."  
"My father wants nothing to do with me or my dragon," I said. 
"He kicked me out of the castle onto the street because I wouldn’t 
give her up."  
Lewon stopped in his tracks. "How dare he?"  
"He’s the King and a very stubborn man. That’s how. P lease, let’s 
just drop it. I really don’t want to talk about that."  
"To throw you and your dragon on the street —it’s unthinkable." 
Lewon said, not dropping it at all. "Dragons are the most precious 
resource in all of Darneta. Nay, in the entire world. Colo nel Authand 
will hear about this."  
It was getting dark, just that time before the sun completely sets 
when everything looks shadowy and weird. The brush rustled in the 
woods at the side of the road, but there was no wind. I figured it was 
probably squirrel s and just kept going. A branch snapped. A large 
one. Too big to be broken by a small animal. I stopped.  
Royal Dragoneer   66 
 Lewon took a few more steps before realizing I wasn’t moving 
and halted as well. "What’s wrong?"  
"There’s something in the woods. I think it’s followin g us.’  
"It’s probably just an ani —" A Goblin leapt from a nearby tree, 
pinning me to the ground. I shrieked and clawed at him, but he was 
heavy, his maw coming towards my face as if to take a bite. I heard a 
thump and metal sliding against metal. The Gobli n’s weight shifted, 
and he slumped next to me.  
Lewon stood over me with a dagger in his left hand, dripping 
blood. "Are you okay?"  
I nodded, fighting to get control of my breathing, which was 
coming in terrified gasps. Still, I managed to sit up.  
He seemed  to take my affirmation at face value and stepped to the 
edge of the woods to wipe his dagger in the grass before sliding it 
back in a hidden sheath in his right sleeve.  
My heart pounded, and I was still hyperventilating. As I tried to 
calm down, I realize d how ridiculous I must seem to him. I was still 
prone on the ground freaking out, while he casually cleaned his 
weapon after killing in a single motion. If I joined the Dragoneers, 
would it affect me like that? Would I kill that easily? Would it become 
my first instinct?  
Lewon held out his hand and I took it. He pulled me up and set 
me back on me feet, his arms briefly circling around my waist. Then, 
he turned his attention to the dead Goblin.  
The danger had passed, and I was on my feet, but my heart beat 
faster and faster. Why couldn’t I catch my breath? I didn’t normally 
react to danger this way. What was wrong with me? Was I having an 
attack of the heart, like the one that killed my grandmother before I 
was born?  
Lewon looked up from where he crouched, r ifling through the 
dead Goblin’s belongings.  
I staggered and fell to my knees. I could hear Farean screaming in 
my head, but that was ridiculous. We hadn’t even made it to the inn 
yet, and the farm was two miles beyond that.  
67  Ash Rober ts 
 Lewon rushed to my side, grabbi ng my shoulders and pulling me 
up. "You need to calm down."  
"I—I can’t." The world spun around me. How could I be moving 
if he was holding me upright?  
"No, you need to calm down. Tell Farean you are okay. She is 
freaking out and overloading your system wit h adrenaline. If both of 
you don’t pull it together, your heart will stop."  
Nothing like telling me that I was about to die to get me settled. "I 
can’t," I panted. "She’s not here."  
"Do it," he shouted, shaking me roughly.  
The pounding continued. This was it; my heart was going to 
explode in my chest.  
If I’d been in a better state of mind, I would have seen it coming. 
Maybe I could have even blocked it. But Lewon slapped me hard 
enough to see stars. "Tell her" he screamed.  
"Farean," I said aloud and in my m ind too. "I’m okay. We’re 
okay."  
Immediately, my heart slowed. The edge of my panic blunted, and 
my breathing slowed. I became aware of the fact that I was sitting on 
the ground in my dress, with Lewon’s arms wrapped around me and 
a dead Goblin laid out ne xt to me. For some reason, that fact didn’t 
seem to bother me as much as it had a minute ago. I didn’t want to 
pull away from Lewon’s embrace. It felt so good. But I wanted him 
to know I was okay. "I’m sorry," I said. "I don’t know what 
happened. I’ve neve r been attacked before, but I didn’t think I would 
freak out like that."  
"It wasn’t you." He looked down into my face, his mouth very 
close to mine. "It was your bond with Farean. She felt the attack and 
got scared. Don’t be surprised if she shows up any m inute. Actually, 
we should both have our dragons with us." His eyes looked off in the 
distance for a moment, his lips moving slightly as he had a 
conversation I couldn’t hear. Did I move my lips like that when I 
mind -spoke with Farean?  
Royal Dragoneer   68 
 "How can you talk to  your dragon from so far?" I asked, pulling 
out of his arms. "And Farean isn’t coming; she doesn’t know where 
we are."  
I’m coming,  Kalia.  
Well, that made me feel silly. And it quickly morphed into anger. 
"Will you tell me what’s going on?" I pushed against  Lewon’s chest.  
We untangled from each other and both stood up.  
"You really don’t know anything about dragons, do you?" He 
asked.  
"That’s not fair," I said. "Everything I know, I’ve had to teach 
myself. Or Farean has taught me." I glared at him, but he was  right. 
This time, what I didn’t know had almost killed me. Next time, it 
might harm or kill Farean. That thought was unbearable. It would be 
like rending myself in two if she died. Where was she? What if she 
got netted by Goblins on the way to me? There c ould be more in the 
woods.  
Then, I heard the "fwap" of beating dragon wings and saw Farean 
clear the tree line. She landed by the dead Goblin and sliced into the 
body with her talons, stabbing with a fury I’d not seen in her before. 
I reached out to her. " It’s dead. It can’t hurt us anymore. " She took one 
more jab at the skull, with enough force to crack it open, before 
turning her attention to me.  
"Are you okay?  What  happened?  I felt you and got scared.  I’ll kill anyone  
that hurts you. Are you okay? " 
The questions kept coming until I placed my arms around her 
neck, sending her every reassuring thought I could muster. "I’m fine. 
It was over before it began, thanks to Lewon."  
Farean swiveled her head, noticing the man next to me for the 
first time. " He smells like dragon.  Where  is his dragon? " 
I started to explain where Calen was when the beat of wings 
announced his arrival.  
Lewon’s green landed a few feet from us, and the two dragons 
squared off, appraising each other. I felt my panic returning. A green 
69  Ash Rober ts 
 just like this had killed my grandfather in front of my eyes. And now 
it looked like he wanted to kill Farean.  
Farean hissed, feeding off my fear. She extended her neck and 
arched her wings, trying to make herself appear as large as possible. 
The older dragon still had the size advantage and batted her with the 
bony edge of his wing.  
I felt the hit as if it were to my own face. It didn’t particularly hurt, 
more like a scolding than an attack. Farean snorted. " Don’t  patronize  
me. If you are going to attack,  do so properly ". 
"No, wait!" I ran to intercept them, throwing myself between the 
two creatures. Farean’s nose pushed against my back. I reached 
behind me to shove her away. Of course, my measly human efforts 
had no effect on a beast so much larger than myself . "What are you 
doing? He’s twice your size and trained. You wouldn’t stand a 
chance."  
"I could take him". She huffed.  
Calen’s eyes bored into me.  
Farean wrapped a claw around me and drew me back from the 
green dragon. " He’s trying to decide  whether  you’re  worth the trouble  to kill so 
he can get to me." 
Calen suddenly tilted his head towards Lewon and dropped his 
shoulders. He glowered at us, but didn’t advance otherwise.  
"No one is attacking anyone," Lewon said, taking a step towards 
us. He looked at his d ragon. "They are our allies."  
Lewon turned towards Farean and me, his hands out in a gesture 
of peace. "We all have a lot of residual tension right now from the 
attack. It’s messing with our emotions. Let’s all calm down. Farean, I 
know you can’t back down  without losing face. Neither can Calen. 
So, on the count of three, everyone will back down together. Nobody 
loses." He swiveled his head between my dragon and his. He raised 
his hands up above his shoulders. "Okay? One. Two. Three. Now." 
He dropped his ha nds and the two beasts returned to their normal 
postures.  
Royal Dragoneer   70 
 "How did you do that? Farean wouldn’t listen to me." " I couldn’t  
control  her. I had always  been able to control  her before,  but not this time". She 
wasn’t a baby anymore. She was developing a mind of her own.  
He shrugged. "Dragons are pack animals, always sorting each 
other for dominance. When you put a bunch of them together, you 
have to learn how to defuse situations before they turn into attacks. 
But don’t worry. You’ll learn it quick enough."  
My eyes settled on the body in the path. He followed my gaze. 
"These woods aren’t safe anymore. You’ll need something to defend 
yourself with."  
Lewon crouched over the Goblin and searched through its 
clothing. He found a crooked dagger in a thigh sheath and pulled 
them both off. "It’s Goblin steel, worthless in most situations, but it’s 
better than nothing. At the training grounds, we can get you outfitted 
with quality gear."  
I examined the blade and sheath. I looked at my waist, trying to 
figure out a way to  attach it. I certainly wasn’t going to reach inside 
my skirt for a weapon.  
Lewon realized my dilemma and removed the belt from the 
Goblin’s body. I shrank back from the grimy leather. He stared at 
me, but I wouldn’t touch it.  
"Fine," he said and removed h is own belt. He strung the sheath 
through the braided cords and handed it to me, then wrapped the 
Goblin belt around his own waist. I tied the belt over my skirts as he 
nodded. "Keep that handy. Even when you get home. You never 
know when another greyskin will show up.  
I pursed my lips at the slur. I knew what it meant, but nobody had 
ever been crude enough to use in in front of me.  
If Lewon saw my discomfort at his words, he didn’t show it. 
Instead, he turned to his dragon. "Get rid of the body." The green  
picked up what was left of the Goblin after Farean’s evisceration and 
went airborne. With a flick of his wrist, the dragon tossed it into the 
woods for scavengers to take care of and landed, this time well clear 
of Farean.  
71  Ash Rober ts 
 Lewon looked at the sun. "Since the dragons are here, we might as 
well fly. It will be safer."  
I looked at Farean’s back. "I don’t have my harness with me."  
He chewed on his lower lip. "Okay, we’ll walk. But I’m not leaving 
your side until you are safely home. I was charged to bring you back 
to Tulta and that’s what I intend to do. Besides, I can’t afford to lose 
someone as important as you."  
I looked down, unable to meet his eye. He meant because I was a 
princess, of course. That had to be. He couldn’t mean that I was 
important to him pe rsonally, could he?  
After a long dusty, mostly silent walk, with our dragons flying 
overhead to scan the woods around us, we were finally at Theron’s. 
Lewon walked in with me and met Theron, them shaking hands like 
old friends. Lewon explained about the at tack on the road, and 
Theron offered him and Calen a place in one of the barns for the 
night. After we’d all had some food and drink, Lewon headed for the 
door.  
I followed him out, to make sure Farean was settled, but then I 
could hear her snoring from her  stable. I was surprised when Lewon 
paused on the porch and took my hands in his. "You’ve certainly 
made my day interesting. I’m going to enjoy flying with you 
tomorrow." He smiled, looking down at me.  
I leaned forward, willing him to close the gap between  us. He saw 
the motion and pulled back. "Get some sleep. We’ll leave just after 
dawn." He drew my hand to his mouth and kissed it, confusing me 
even more, before loping into the dark towards the barn.  
I stood for a few moments, under the moonlight, only to  see 
Farean lumbering towards me.  
"I got a quick nap. "She said, coming up and rubbing my face with 
her muzzle" . Now,  I will stand watch". 
"Don’t be silly. You need more sleep. You have the hard part 
tomorrow."  
"Fine". She coiled her body in front of the d oor, resting her head 
on her front legs. " I will sleep here then. Nothing  will get past me". 
Royal Dragoneer   72 
 I smiled and patted her head. "Goodnight." I closed the door 
behind me and leaned against it, trying to keep my thoughts still until 
I heard her snoring again.  
There it was —halfway between a growl and a purr —the most 
endearing sound I’d ever heard.  
I pressed my back against the hard door, fighting tears. This day 
had reminded me of the other side of having a dragon —the 
dangerous and wild side that had killed my gran dfather. That had 
been easy to forget while Farean was smaller and cuter, and we lived 
on a pig farm.  
I had often wondered why my grandfather had run out to 
confront a huge beast wielding only a sword. I had never asked my 
mother or father. I knew, even as  a small child, it was not a question 
I was allowed to voice. But, in my own mind, I’d often thought it had 
been foolish of him. Everyone knew a man couldn’t defeat a dragon. 
Only a dragon could match a dragon.  
And today, my little dragon had faced off aga inst a full -grown 
green, and all that terror had come rushing back. That was when I 
realized I was being as foolish as my grandpa. I had vastly 
overestimated my ability to handle a dragon.  
Lewon’s words came rushing back to me —You really don’t know 
anythin g about dragons,  do you?"  " 
He was right. I hadn’t known my fear would scare Farean so 
much, or that her response could actually kill me. I hadn’t known I 
could call her from far away, or that she could hone in on my 
location. And I had absolutely no idea how dragons related to other 
dragons, or how Dragoneers related to one another. Which had all 
lead me to make a decision on our silent march home, though I had 
fought not to think of it until now. My heart ached, but I also knew it 
was the right thing to d o for Farean. Because I loved her.  
I ran my hand over the rough grain of the door separating us and 
swallowed my sobs.  
I wouldn’t be getting much in the way of sleep tonight.  
 
 
 
They’re  here. Kalia,  wake up. They’re  here"." 
I opened my eyes, squinting into the rising sun streaming through 
my window. A cool breeze carried the scent of the caked mud and 
excrement from the stable. I wasn’t going to miss that part of my 
morning wakeup routine. Rubbing my eyes, I searched  for the clothes 
I’d dropped on the floor the night before. My hair was a mess, but it 
would get much worse than that flying, so instead of fixing it, I 
stumbled out to the kitchen. Lewon sat at the table chatting with 
Theron. I ignored them and went for t he pot of brewed stimleaf. I 
chugged the beverage and let out the most unladylike belch. For 
dignity’s sake, they pretended not to hear me.  
Lewon stood. "Are you ready to go?"  
"Almost."  I hugged Theron. "Thank you for everything. I couldn’t 
have made it through this month without you."  
He wrapped his arms around me. "You would have been fine. 
You’re more resilient than you think."  
I sniffed, fighting to keep the tears from falling. "Once  I’m on 
better terms with my father, I’ll —" 
"I already have everything I could want from your father. Just 
don’t be a stranger. Visit me when you’re at the capital."  
I nodded, backing away from him. "I will."  
Outside, Farean paced in front of the house, tu rning at every 
sound coming from the woods. " Can we go now? Goblins  could attack  any 
moment ". 
I laughed.  
Royal Dragoneer   74 
 Lewon leaned in and whispered, "Don’t tell her we’ll be traveling 
closer to the Goblin encampments." The laugh died on my lips. I 
didn’t like the idea of heading towards danger, but I at least I’d be 
surrounded by dozens of dragons and trained Dragoneers.  
I lashed my bag to Farean’s forepaw and assembled my makeshift 
harness. Lewon arched an eyebrow at it but said nothing. Calen 
snorted and shook his hea d. I ignored them. If they wanted me to 
have a proper harness, they should have brought one. Tightening the 
last knot securing me to Farean’s back, I leaned in close. " Let’s show 
them what we can do". 
Without warning, she reared and leapt into the sky, bea ting her 
wings as we flew higher and higher. Looking back, I saw Lewon 
finish fastening his harness and take off after us. Aided by Calen’s 
larger size, they caught up quickly. Farean flapped harder, taking us 
closer to the clouds. Calen banked and then ro se above us. He 
coasted overhead, pushing us lower. "Save your energy," Lewon 
shouted. "We have a lot of flying to do today."  
I stuck out my tongue, but we descended to a more comfortable 
altitude. We flew in silence with Lewon and his dragon a few feet to  
our left. Remembering the bug incident from the week before, I 
fished out my scarf from a pocket on my gingham dress and wrapped 
it around my face. The wind still stung my eyes and made them 
water. I was about to add goggles to my mental list of things I 
needed, and then remembered I wouldn’t be needing them.  
"What  are Googles? " Farean asked. " Do I need them? " 
"Not Googles.  Goggles.  "I corrected her, thankful for the laugh to 
cover my sudden sadness."  And no, you don’t need them. That’s  what your 
second  eyelids are for." 
We fell behind the other dragon. At first, it was barely noticeable, 
but as the day progressed, Lewon got further and further ahead of us, 
until I could barely see the spade -shaped flutter of Calen’s tail.  
Lewon noticed this as well, and th ey began to descend, waving us 
down as they went.  
75  Ash Rober ts 
 Farean landed next to them in a clearing by a stream. After 
extracting myself from the harness, she lumbered over and started 
lapping up water.  
"We will rest for an hour and then start again." Lewon pulled a 
drinking flask out of his coat and filled it upstream from the dragons. 
"We made good time. We should only need to stop three or four 
more times before we make it to the training grounds." He pulled 
some strips of jerky out of another pocket and offered me one.  
Taking it, I glanced at our companions as the green found a spot 
free of shadows and spread out in it, soaking up the sun like a giant 
cat. "What about them?" I held up my jerky.  
Lewon shook his head. "If they eat, they’ll get tired and not fly as 
well. Under extreme conditions, a dragon can go three days without 
any food and still fly." He looked in my eyes, and then away, a little 
smile on his face.  
I nodded, unsure what to say. I felt like I was being flirted with, 
but it was awkward. Lewon didn’ t seem awed by my status, but then I 
had no idea what my status was anymore. How did Dragoneers flirt? 
I’d never really been courted or wooed. I’d been matched with Etlin 
when I was still a toddler. Both of us always assumed we’d be 
together, and it had be en comfortable and settled. And boring. How 
many girlfriends had Lewon had? Maybe he had one now. The 
thought was disturbing. How could I find out? I couldn’t just ask.  
Farean found her own sunny spot and rolled onto her side, 
exposing her belly to the ray s. I climbed up to her forepaw and rested 
against her. Together we dozed in the light as if we hadn’t a care in 
the world. Too soon, Lewon motioned for us to get ready. Up in the 
sky, we continued east, the wind reducing conversation to only the 
most neces sary orders.  
"What  do you think of Lewon? " I asked Farean.  
"I don’t trust him or his big green dragon. " "The man smells  off." Her tail 
flicked against the wind. Calen turned his head towards us briefly, but 
then returned his attention to flying. Had he hea rd that?  
Royal Dragoneer   76 
 "Really? " I asked her. " I thought  he smelled  good." "Besides,  he’s been nicer 
to me than anyone  outside  of Theron’s  family  since you hatched. " 
She swooped to catch a swallow too slow to avoid us. We flew 
with the poor creature in her talons for a few seconds before she 
released it. " I’m just practicing ". I felt her annoyance through our bond. 
"And if you don’t want my opinion,  don’t ask for it". 
"That was a good catch", I admitted. But I’d hurt her feelings and 
now she wanted to pretend I wasn’t ti ed to her back hundreds of feet 
in the air.  
She still wasn’t speaking to me the next time we landed. I 
unhooked myself from the harness and we headed in opposite 
directions.  
"What’s wrong?" Lewon fell in lockstep with me as we headed 
away from the river we  were still following.  
"Just a difference of opinion." I wasn’t about to tell him that we 
had argued about him. "But now she’s angry and not speaking to 
me." 
He laughed. "There isn’t a creature in the world as stubborn as a 
dragon. Give her time, she’ll co me around. But while we’re on the 
ground and she won’t be distracting you, I could teach you some 
woodcraft. That is unless you already know it."  
"No, it never came up while my mother was making sure I knew 
how to walk around with a board on my head." I mi med holding a 
flat object above me while keeping my head perfectly still, pacing a 
few steps. He laughed, and I pretended to drop my board and fell to 
the leafy ground after it. I grinned from below him and he plopped 
down beside me. "Apparently, it’s a vi tal skill in the court."  
I tried to pay attention as he instructed me in the best way to start 
a fire, but mostly I daydreamed about whether I could convince my 
parents to enter into talks with his. Or, well, whoever his guardian 
was. Hopefully, it was som ebody at least moderately important that 
could offer something to the King in return for my hand. It was silly 
girl stuff. I knew that. But I was a still a girl.  
77  Ash Rober ts 
 I decided that the Authand must be his guardian. That would be 
perfect. As leader of the Drago neers, Authand could just about name 
his terms. I’d seen him threaten to quit the service of the Elves if 
Father didn’t supply more food for the dragons. I had to be worth 
more than some food. Authand would have my father in a corner 
and my marriage to Lew on would be secured.  
I was so caught up in my ruminations that I didn’t hear him call 
my name. He clapped his hands next to my ear, breaking me free of 
my reverie. "Have you been paying attention at all?" He stood and 
held out a hand.  
"Huh?" I shook my hea d to clear the cobwebs. "Of course. I just 
got a little distracted towards the end." I took the hand, expecting 
him to pull me up, but he just stood there with his arm extended. 
Well, Father would at least insist that Lewon take lessons with my 
grace tutor . I pulled myself up, using his otherwise useless arm as 
support.  
He turned his back on me, heading to the waiting dragons. "Get in 
your harness. We should have left a while ago."  
I raced to catch up on him, taking care to avoid the exposed tree 
roots that  threatened to trip me on the ill -defined path. The gurgling 
water of the nearby stream reminded me that I hadn’t been able to 
relieve myself for hours. "How long till we get there?"  
"Still half a day’s flight. Why?"  
I couldn’t bring myself to say it. I su bconsciously looked down at 
my lap. He caught the motion and smirked. "You’ll have to go in the 
woods."  
"What? No, I can’t." My hands dropped to cover myself, although 
I was no more exposed than I had been a minute ago.  
"Suit yourself," he shrugged, leavin g me wondering why he was 
suddenly so rude. If that wasn’t bad enough, he and Calen took off, 
leaving me to finish tying myself in so Farean and I had to try to 
catch up. At our next landing, I was so annoyed, I stayed tied to 
Farean’s back the entire hour  on the ground.  
Royal Dragoneer   78 
 We continued east, as the sun sank towards the horizon, turning 
the sky a mixture of reds and oranges. Behind us, the sky dipped into 
violet and the dragon moon glowed silver as it began its nightly chase 
of the ball of fire. The sun disapp eared below the horizon and dots 
of fire became visible on the ground below, signaling inhabitants who 
eschewed the safety of greater numbers in towns and villages. Ahead 
of us, a ring of fires marked our destination, as the watch lit the night 
against the  Goblins that hunted here.  
We landed in a field where Colonel Authand was waiting. He held 
out his good hand to steady me as I climbed off Farean. "Welcome, 
Princess Kalia." He bowed, still clutching my hand.  
"No time. Bathroom." I ran off in a random dire ction, hoping one 
would be clearly labelled. Near the wall to my left, a lonely wooden 
stall bore the glyph for privacy. I gulped, as I headed towards it. A pit 
toilet was little better than going in the woods, but I was out of time 
and options.  
When came back out, the Colonel and Lewon were nowhere to be 
seen and neither were the dragons. " Farean?  "I called, beginning to 
panic.  
"Finally,  not pork"! She squealed in my head. Well, at least she was 
being taken care of. I wasn’t sure where I was supposed to go, but a 
red-haired girl approached me, holding out a hand. I was getting used 
to the manners of commoners and shook it. "I’m Kalia," I added.  
"I know," she said. "I’m Esgeril. Colonel Authand asked me to 
show you to the girls’ dorm. You’re to report to h im in the morning."  
She started walking and I followed, trying to examine the buildings 
in the dim light. The complex was huge, putting the castle to shame, 
but most of the space was empty, segregated into large grassy lots like 
the one we were crossing. L ow stone buildings dotted the landscape 
and the lake I’d spied from the air seemed to make up the Western 
border.  
We approached a complex made up of stables for the dragons. 
The scent of straw and sweat permeated the building, which 
alternated between covered and open -air pavilions. To either side sat 
79  Ash Rober ts 
 two story buildings with rows of empty windows. Esgeril led me to 
the closest one. "All of the female Dragoneers stay here," she 
explained. "The guys are on the other side. And there’s a watch tower 
over the stables," she pointed to a spindle in the center of the 
compound, "to make sure we don’t mix. Violators get latrine  duty."  
I made a face. "At least that was one thing I won’t have to worry 
about. Princesses don’t sneak in the middle of the night."  
She chuckled as she led me up to an empty room. "This one is 
yours. I’m down the hall on the right." She pointed to a door by the 
stairs. She promised to lead me to the Colonel’s office in the morning 
and, with that, I was alone for the first time since I’d stormed out of 
the hatching grounds a lifetime ago. I found my belongings sitting on 
a small table by a cot. It was bare and uncomfortable compared to 
my quarters in the castle, but a month of sleeping in Lunara’s bed 
made it more than tolerable.  

 
 
 
"This place is so fun. There  are so many dragons  here". Farean’s voice 
woke me up, insanely early, as usual. My window showed a view of 
inky purple over the lake, only the brightest morning stars still visible.  
"I knew you would  like it. But let me sleep. I don’t need to be up until dawn". 
I rolled over and pulled my head under the straw  stuffed pillow. I 
could feel her excitement and even caught the odd scent as she 
introduced herself to the rousing dragons. I pushed the sensations 
away and focused on returning to sleep, but a knock ended that futile 
hope. Still dressed in yesterday’s cl othes, I opened the door to find 
Esgeril waiting for me, her long braided hair still damp. With 
squinted eyes, I told her, "I thought you said morning. This is still 
night."  
She laughed. "We count dawn by the tower. The sun hit it half an 
hour ago."  
"Fine,  I’ll get ready." I grunted and shut the door in her face. I 
spied a bowl of water that had been set out for me the night before 
and did my best to wash the travel grime from my face and hands. I 
had no way of cleaning my hair, so I tied it up into a bun b efore 
changing into fresh clothes. Opening the door, I found Esgeril 
waiting in the same spot I’d left her. Girls in various stages of getting 
dressed chatted in the halls but when I stepped out, they all fell silent. 
I felt every pair of eyes on me as we left. I hoped they didn’t think 
they were intimidating me. Being stared at had pretty much been my 
life-long job description.  
Overhead, dragons flew in formations. "Why are they different?"  
"Huh?" Esgeril stopped.  
Royal Dragoneer   82 
 I pointed up. "The formations. Each color group is flying 
differently from the rest. Wouldn’t it look better if they all flew the 
same way?"  
She shook her head. "Formations are designed to take advantage 
of each dragon’s strength. Oranges are the biggest and strongest. And 
the most stubborn, just like their riders. Blues like your Farean are 
the fastest. They can be quick to temper as well." I recalled how 
willing Farean had been to eat half the nobility of Darneta at the 
hatching and nodded.  
Esgeril continued. "Greens are the most agile, sometimes  of 
morals as well as body. They are the best at getting in and out of a 
tight spot without getting caught." She paused a second and her chest 
swelled. "But Reds are the most steadfast creatures in all the land. 
Only they can fly steady enough for an arche r." 
"You have a Red dragon, I’m guessing?"  
"Yeah. Baran. He’s the best dragon ever. Every Dragoneer is 
going to say that, but in my case, it’s true. He understands me better 
than anyone."  
The Colonel’s office was small compared to the dragon sized 
building s of the rest of the camp. However, it did have an entire wall 
missing, covered over with a huge sheet of canvas. Esgeril saw me 
staring at it as we approached. "It rolls up to allow Korth to join in 
meetings." I tried to imagine a dragon sitting in on one  of my father’s 
conferences, stuffed into one of the hard wooden chairs and sipping 
tea from Mother’s delicate, human -made china.  
I giggled and Esgeril shot me a puzzled look. I shook my head and 
the door to the office opened at our arrival. An aide looked  at us and 
said, "Ah, Princess Kalia. Please, come in. The Colonel is expecting 
you." He turned his attention to Esgeril. "You can go to breakfast 
now. Somebody else will retrieve her when they are done."  
Esgeril gave the aide a nod and left. I followed hi m inside. He 
pointed to a bench in the antechamber and knocked on the door to 
the Colonel’s office. I sat as he went inside and spoke to the Elf in 
83  Ash Rober ts 
 charge. A moment later, he returned and waved me in. I stepped 
inside the office, and he shut the door behin d me.  
"You’re late." The Colonel didn’t wait for me to sit.  
I settled into the small wooden stool on the opposite side of his 
desk. "I’m sorry, sir. I didn’t know you used the tower to tell time 
here." I looked down, folding my hands in my lap as I balance d on 
the tripod structure.  
"No, I mean you’re two days late." He shook his head. "The other 
new Dragoneers arrived from the hatchery two days ago. That makes 
you two days behind learning the basics. You’ll have to make it up on 
your own time. Meanwhile, yo u will have chores like anybody else. 
Don’t expect any special treatment here. The King’s daughter isn’t 
any different from a shopkeeper’s son as far as Dragoneers are 
concerned."  
"With all due respect, sir." I straightened and looked him in the 
eye. "I do n’t plan to be here long. I came to find a new rider for 
Farean. Once that is settled, I’ll head back to the capital. I don’t 
know if I’ll be welcome at the castle, but I’ve made some friends 
there and can find work."  
"What are you talking about?" He title d his head, giving me a look 
as if I’d said something preposterous; like Goblins were my friends. 
Well, I had a dragon in my head and we made peace with my 
grandfather’s killers. Maybe that idea wasn’t too far out either.  
"I’m talking about the fact that I  know nothing about dragons, 
and Farean deserves better than that. She needs a rider that can turn 
her into the greatest blue the Dragoneers have ever seen. Surely, 
there was someone at the hatching that wasn’t chosen but who has 
been trained up for this. Of course, I’d like to meet them first, to see 
if they’re a good fit. Farean can’t just go to anyone."  
His face contorted into a frown and then a grimace as I finished 
my speech. Then for moment, we just sat, staring at each other.  
"What you are asking is impossible," he said.  
"Impossible? You mean there is nobody else available without a 
dragon? I might know someone already," I said, thinking of my maid.  
Royal Dragoneer   84 
 "I mean that the bond between you and your dragon is 
unbreakable. You cannot leave her because you’re s cared, or you 
want a more manageable pet. Frankly, even suggesting such a thing is 
the most sickening thing I’ve ever heard, and I was reading a report 
on Goblin atrocities before you arrived." He reached for a scroll on 
his desk and flung it at me.  
I duck ed, but the wooden spindle struck my arm. "Oww." I 
rubbed the red mark. I stood up, knocking over the stool. I bent to 
pick it up but stopped, kicking it away from me instead. "Why are 
you so angry with me?" I demanded, glaring at him.  
"Angry?" He laughed.  "This isn’t angry? This barely rates as 
annoyed on my scale. This has nothing to do with you, Princess." He 
spat the word, making it sound more like a slur than a title worthy of 
respect. "This is about your dragon. You are a pathetic excuse for an 
Elf an d Farean is stuck with you. Those are the facts. Every 
Dragoneer who has ever flown knows they aren’t worthy of their 
mount. It humbles the most confident man and makes him feel the 
fool to be owned by a beast so grand. I dare say it even makes a 
Princess doubt her useless, pompous upbringing. But that doesn’t 
mean you can quit. Quite the opposite."  
"I’m not trying to be falsely humble here, I assure you," I argued. 
"Look at me. Do you really think I have any business caring for one 
of our most precious mil itary assets? I don’t know what I’m doing."  
"No, you don’t. And that’s mostly your fault. You ran off like a 
spoiled little girl instead of staying at the hatching grounds where 
others were available to mentor you." He struck the desk with his 
hook. That s ection of the wood was filled with pock marks from 
similar attacks. He used the wedged in claw to pull himself up, 
returning the advantage of height to him. "I’m not saying you aren’t a 
terrible choice for a Dragoneer. You are. But if you leave that dragon , 
you will break her heart. And I don’t mean in a figurative, lovesick 
teenager way. The dragon bond is the strongest magic left in the 
world. If Farean believes, for one second, that you’ve truly rejected 
her, her giant reptilian heart will stop beating."  
85  Ash Rober ts 
 "No—I would never want that. Isn’t there another way?" I 
croaked, feeling my own heart in my throat.  
"There is not. And, so help me, if you do anything to mistreat that 
dragon, you’ll be spending a lifetime in the Dragon Caves. And don’t 
think your father  could overrule Dragoneer justice. The caves are 
prison to criminal Dragoneers and dragons from all seven kingdoms. 
Now get out of here before I decide to send you there just for being 
an idiot."  
I stood, openmouthed, trying to process what he’d told me. 
Authand picked up the ink blotter and threw it at my feet. I jumped, 
but the blue ink still splattered on the pigskin boots that Theron had 
given me. He looked for something else to throw, and I got the 
picture, racing for the door. I didn’t acknowledge the  aide, even as he 
held the outer door for me so I could escape his boss.  
Lewon sat on a rock wall a few feet from the office, whittling a 
stick with the dagger he’d used to kill the Goblin a few days ago. He 
saw me and stood. I cut away from him, wanting n othing more than 
to go back to my quarters and cry in privacy.  
He sidestepped and cut me off, so I ran straight into his body. 
Again. We were beginning to make a habit of that. Lewon wrapped 
his arms around me, gripping me tightly so that I couldn’t escape . 
"Leave me alone." I choked back a sob.  
"Hey, don’t worry about him. He’s like that with everybody."  
"I doubt that," I said, struggling against Lewon’s hold. My eyes 
were already wet and full of unshed tears, but I couldn’t hold them 
back much longer.  
"No, really. Did you see all the marks on his desk? He doesn’t 
need to stand up that way. He does it for affect to scare the newbies.  
I sniffed. "Are you sure?"  
"Yeah." He grinned at me, his dimples showing, and my heart 
lifted a little. Maybe this wouldn’t b e so bad —getting trained by 
Lewon. Deciding to give up Farean had been the hardest decision I 
had ever made. Harder than leaving home or breaking up with Etlin. 
And now the Colonel was saying I couldn’t —that it was impossible. 
Royal Dragoneer   86 
 Wasn’t that a good thing? I h ad built myself up for the inevitable 
heartbreak of it for so long; I didn’t even know how to feel anymore. 
Fear? Hope? Relief?  
Lewon felt me relax and loosened his arms some, adding, "But 
he’s still going to give you extra duty for missing an entire month  at 
the hatching grounds and two days of training. Make no mistake. 
When the Colonel says something, he means it. You’re going to be so 
sore."  
"Great! " How much extra work would make up for saying "the 
most sickening" thing the Colonel had ever heard?  
"Hey , don’t worry," Lewon said. "When you’re not in classes or 
doing extra chores, I could help train you to get you caught up."  
"Yeah, okay." I nodded. "Let’s do it."  
"You mean right now?" he laughed, surprised at my sudden 
determination. "How about this?  We have free time after dinner. 
There’s a beach on the north shore of the lake. Meet me there an 
hour after we eat, and I’ll get you up to speed."  
I smiled. Alone on a beach as the sun was setting? That was the 
best news I’d heard all month. "But dinner i s so far away," I moaned. 
"I haven’t even eaten breakfast yet."  
"Well, let’s take care of that," he said, guiding me to the mess hall. 
When we arrived, he waved me inside. "I’ve already eaten and need 
to get back to my classes. See you after lunch." I star ted inside. "Oh, 
and Kalia?"  
I stopped. "Yes?"  
"Get yourself a proper set of clothes. You won’t be able to fight in 
a dress. And you looked pretty ridiculous flying in it yesterday. Let’s 
just say there was a reason I wouldn’t let you fly ahead of me." He 
grinned and left. I stood at the door, red from the tips of my ears 
down to my toes. I entered the mess, taking a moment for my eyes to 
adjust to the dim light. Outside, three bells tolled, their tone rising 
then falling. The Dragoneers around the room sto pped talking at 
once, creating an odd quiet punctuated only by the chime.  
87  Ash Rober ts 
 Then, they rose and made for the exits. Several pushed past me, as 
if I wasn’t there. After being knocked repeatedly, I gave up expecting 
common decency from them and pressed myself against the wall.  
Seconds later, the room was empty save for a servant who pushed 
a cart, piling the abandoned plates and bowls as she passed each 
table. I made my way towards a door marked "Enter" in hopes of 
finding my breakfast.  
"What are you still doin g here, girl?" The servant pushed the cart 
in front of me, blocking my progress. "Capture the flag is about to 
start."  
"I don’t care about a game. I’m hungry."  
"Breakfast is over. Now go." She turned her back to me and 
resumed her task. I sighed and left. If I couldn’t get a meal, I might as 
well find out about this game everyone was so eager for.  
Out on the parade field, dragons and their riders assembled 
according to their colors. I finally found Esgeril among a group of 
other Red riders. Her fiery hair a midst a sea of red dragon hides 
hadn’t exactly made her conspicuous.  
The dragons eyed me. I came a little too close to one, and it 
emitted a low growl. I shrank away from it. "What’s going on?"  
Esgeril saw me and pulled me away from the throng. "What are 
you doing here? You and Farean should be with the Blues. Find the 
other Blue riders and talk to Selkerdrim. He’ll explain the rules to 
you. Now go. The others think you’re here spying for your team." 
She gave me a small push and disappeared back into the cr owd.  
The Blues were easy to find. Each of the four Colors occupied a 
different quadrant of the field and kept well apart from each other. 
Farean was already there, pacing back and forth, bragging about her 
one short visit to the castle while the others ign ored her and went 
about their business.  
She saw me and perked up. " Kalia.  You’re  here! Are we going to play 
too?" 
"It looks that way. But I need to find Selkerdrim."  
Royal Dragoneer   88 
 "Someone looking for me?" The crowd parted, revealing a tall boy 
wearing a number three pi nned to his shirt. Tufts of dark brown hair 
stuck out from under a leather helmet. Selkerdrim flashed a smile as 
he approached. He looked near my age, and held himself in a manner 
that commanded respect. I felt a little self -conscious standing near 
him. He  had the bearing Father had tried to teach me, but I had been 
as bad at it as Mother’s lady -like grace.  
"Oh, you." His smile faded. He pointed to a group in mismatched 
gear looking a little lost. "Go over with the other first years. I’ll be 
there in a minu te. I don’t want to have to explain the rules more than 
once."Most of the other first year Dragoneers were my age, but there 
were a few older. They all quieted when I approached. "Hi." I waved.  
In return, they just stared. It was a tad rude, but I understo od that 
commoners had little chance to learn proper manners.  
Two riders broke into a fight, grappling each other to the ground. 
I stopped, unsure if I should break it up or if I even could. Before I 
could make up my mind, one of the boys pinned the other t o the 
ground. He stood above him for a second, then reached down and 
pulled him back to his feet.  
Selkerdrim approached our group with a golden banner tucked 
under his arm. "This is our flag." He unrolled it to reveal a vividly 
embroidered blue dragon span ning the length. "The object of 
Capture the Flag is to protect our flag and capture one belonging to 
the enemy. If another dragon catches you, they get ten points. Catch 
a flag and bring it back here for fifty points. The first team to a 
hundred wins. You lot will guard the flag. When the horn blows, 
follow me. Saddle up."  
The others climbed on top of their beasts and hooked into their 
harnesses. Mine was still in my room. Of course, Selkerdrim noticed 
me just standing there. "You don’t get a special invita tion. I expect 
my orders to be followed."  
"I didn’t bring my harness." I explained. "No one told me —" 
"You’re absolutely useless." From his dragon, Selkerdrim towered 
over me. "Look, the game is about to start. When it does, run to the 
89  Ash Rober ts 
 trees and hide. You can’t play without a harness." The horn blew. 
Selkerdrim’s dragon lifted off into the sky, soon followed by the 
other Blue dragons. The Reds, Greens, and Oranges rose in their 
respective sections of the field. Soon, Farean and I were the only 
ones left.  
I sighed. "Well, let’s go have a seat and wait for this to be over."  
We sat under the shade of an oak and watched the other dragons 
and riders flit across the sky. Authand and another instructor, " Aran’s  
rider", Farean provided somewhat helpfully, announced the game.  
The Orange dragons seemed to focus on defense. They made no 
attempt to hide their flag, but a wall of the giant beasts surrounded it. 
The younger ones, nearly double the size of an adult Blue, worked on 
points.  
A Green, undoubtedly thinking itsel f sneaky, dove from an 
impossibly high height towards the Orange flag. Its speed increased 
as it got closer to the ground. Wings tucked in, the approach was 
almost silent. If I had been facing the other direction, I would have 
never known it was coming. I held my breath. Would the green 
dragon be able to stop in time?  
I couldn’t hear the approaching dragon, but apparently other 
dragons could. Just as the Green was about to break through the 
circle, one of the Oranges flicked its tail at the speeding intrude r. The 
strike was quick and precise. Neither dragon nor rider even looked, 
but the blow found its mark. The Green was thrown off course, 
tumbling twice before righting itself mere feet from the ground.  
"Ten points for Orange." Authand’s voice boomed throug h a 
speaking horn.  
If the gambit had succeeded, Green would have won the game. 
For now, they maintained the lead, but the Blues weren’t far behind. 
"Ten points for Green," Authand reported on some unseen part of 
the field. That put them up to ninety. The m atch was pretty much a 
wrap at this point. One more play, and it would be theirs. At only 
sixty points, the Blues didn’t have much chance.  
Royal Dragoneer   90 
 Cheering erupted from Elves with dragon roars joining the chorus. 
"Kalia,  look", Farean practically shouted through o ur mental 
connection. " Selkerdrim  has the Red flag. We’re  going to win." 
But it wasn’t a forgone conclusion just yet. A dozen Reds, three 
Greens, and even a small Orange chased close behind. Perhaps 
Selkerdrim’s only chance lie in the fact that the other t eams were 
more interested in fighting each other for position than in actually 
catching up to him. The Blue and his rider came in over the lake, 
wind buffeting them and slowing their superior speed. The Greens 
rode the currents in loops and twirls, taking every advantage to close 
the gap. The Reds sliced through the wind as if it weren’t there. Even 
the Orange dragon barreled through, using mass and sheer force of 
will to beat the maelstrom.  
"Psst."  
Whoever wanted me could wait. I leaned forward at the very  edge 
of my stump to watch.  
"Psst."  
I turned and found Lewon ducked behind a tree. He waved for me 
to join him. I cast a glance back towards the action and moved his 
direction. "But I want to watch this," I complained.  
"You want to watch the game, or do yo u want to win it?" He 
pointed. Just beyond where he stood in a small clearing, the green 
flag hung from a tree branch. And no one was guarding it.  
"Why show me?" I asked confused. "Don’t you want to win?"  
Lewon shrugged. "Green wins this thing all the time . If you score 
the winning points, you’ll be a hero. It will go a long way towards the 
Dragoneers accepting you."  
I considered it. Authand already hated me, and no one else was 
likely to cut me any slack. And it was only a silly game. Besides, I 
hadn’t hea rd any rules against one team helping another. "Thank 
you," I whispered to Lewon, hurrying towards the flag before he 
changed his mind. When I got to it, I wrapped my fingers around the 
silk cloth and pulled. It spilled into my arms, and I raced back to 
Farean. "We don’t have a harness, so we’ll have to walk. But if we 
91  Ash Rober ts 
 hurry, we can beat Selkerdrim back to the field." I climbed on her 
back, thinking it would be faster. And if I did fall off it was only a 
few feet to the ground.  
Farean lumbered through the t rees out onto the edge of the field. 
As soon as we broke into the open, half the Green team was upon us 
like they’d been waiting there.  
"Run," I shouted.  
Farean moved as quickly as she could, but she was no land 
mammal. Ahead, Selkerdrim had broken free of  his pursuers. He was 
going to beat me there after all.  
I was so focused on those behind me; I didn’t notice the shadow 
above me. Green talons thrust down, grabbing the flag in my arms. I 
gripped the fabric tighter, but the Green rose into the air, pulling  me 
off Farean. I screamed and let go, bouncing off Farean’s back and 
rolling to the ground.  
"Ten points for Green," Authand announced. "Green wins the 
game!" The Green bearing the flag he’d stolen from me took a 
victory lap over the field. One by one, the  other Greens joined him.  
I slowly pushed myself up from the ground, just as Selkerdrim 
landed in the marked out square little more than twenty yards in front 
of me. He would have won the game for us if I hadn’t botched it. 
Even from the distance, I could see his scowl as he dismounted.  
"Why did you do that?" he yelled at me "I told you to stay under 
cover and keep out of trouble."  
"I found their flag. There was nobody there. I thought I could 
win." I didn’t want to reveal Lewon’s role in my play and get him in 
trouble with his teammates.  
"If there’s nobody protecting a flag, it’s a trap," Selkerdrim spat. 
"They were waiting for you to take it."  
I hung my head. "I’m sorry."  
"Get out of here before the other Blues descend," he barked. 
"This would have been our first win against Green in two years, and 
you ruined it." He stormed off, leaving me standing there like an 
Royal Dragoneer   92 
 idiot. Which maybe I was. Had Lewon set me up? I didn’t want to 
believe that, but it sure looked like he had.  
"I told you", Farean huffed.  
"He f ooled you, too," I said before storming off.  
 
 
 
I took the long way back to the barracks and most of the other 
Dragoneers beat me there. A group of second year girls chatted in 
the courtyard overlooking the drago n stables. As I approached, their 
conversation stopped.  
"Thanks for your play," a girl with a tattoo of a green dragon on 
her forearm said. "The Greens would have needed an entire minute 
to win without you." The others laughed at her taunt. First the 
possi ble betrayal by Lewon, and now this? My day just kept getting 
better and better. Still, it would only make things worse if I started a 
fight.  
I smiled, calling forth every ounce of grace tutoring my mother 
had forced on me. "Maybe next time, I can score po ints for my own 
team."  
They just stared at me. Obviously, I wasn’t going to impress them 
with my grace. But there were other ways to win people.  
"Anyone want to trade clothes?" I asked, pointing down at my 
now-dusty dress. "It seems I brought the wrong tru nk and don’t have 
any riding attire. So, I propose a swap. My dress for any of the outfits 
you have on right now. I assure you, my dresses are custom made 
with the most expensive fabrics and quite valuable."  
"Why would we want a bunch of frilly stuff like that?" One of 
them asked. "We ain’t got no use for it here." The other girls tittered.  
"Don’t you ever get dressed up?" I asked. "Perhaps there’s a 
Dragoneer dance, or some rider you’d liked to impress." This 
conversation wasn’t going at all how I had hope d it would.  
"You don’t impress a rider with a dress," another girl scoffed.  
Royal Dragoneer   94 
 "And there ain’t no dance ‘cept the one in the sky," another girl 
said, and they all laughed like she’d told a lewd joke. " Oh, wait a 
minute.  Dragons  mate in the sky." 
One of the g irls was a Dark Elf. I’d heard they had limited 
opportunities because of the prejudice against them, though there 
was also an old wives tale that if you touched one it was good luck. I 
turned to her. "How about you?" I squinted at the name sewn onto a 
patch over her right breast. "Lorra? If you don’t want the dress to 
wear, you could get a pretty penny for it at the market, especially if 
you said it was from the banished Princess herself. I’m sure you 
could use the money."  
She came towards me. Like the othe r riders, she was strongly built 
and broad, her muscles rippling under her midnight skin. Two of her 
friends approached too, flanking her. The one in Green, Florian, 
towered over the others, taller than most men, with the faintest hit of 
green to her compl etion. She had to be part orc. I’d heard such 
things happened in the provinces, but it was shocking to see.  
Lorra inched closer. "What? Just because of the color of my skin, 
you think I’m poor? Not all stereotypes are true, Princess." She made 
my title sou nd like a slur. "But I guess one is. The royal family is 
stuck up and doesn’t care about the common people. Like father, like 
daughter."  
"Don’t you talk about my father." I launched myself at her, but 
Florian grabbed me and lifted me cleanly off the ground . "Let me 
go." I squirmed against her grip, legs swinging uselessly in the air.  
"With pleasure, Your Highness." With that final word, she 
launched me into the air.  
I hit the ground hard and rolled twice before a rock jammed into 
my shoulder, stopping me ab ruptly. Pain throbbed, radiating down 
my arm. The girls continued to laugh while I lay there, trying to catch 
my breath.  
I could feel Farean’s growl in my soul. " I’m okay", I told her.  
"No, you’re  hurt. I will hurt them." 
95  Ash Rober ts 
 I fought the urge to shake my head. She couldn’t see me anyway. 
"Some battles  I have to fight on my own". 
"But-" 
"No, trust me, dear". I stood slowly. My pink gown now bore a gash 
and the fabric around the split was red from my bleeding shoulder.  
Just moving hurt, but I wouldn’t give t hem the satisfaction of 
seeing it. I pushed through the crowd to the barracks door, yanking it 
open, which rewarded me with a fresh wave of pain. I clenched my 
teeth and let the door slam behind me. I braced against the wall for a 
moment before trudging up  the stairs to my room. I fished out my 
makeshift harness, not bothering to change. The opposite stairwell 
led directly to the stables.  
I found Farean resting on some sun -warmed rocks. " I like this place, 
but you don’t. "Her lips pulled back revealing her fanged teeth, an 
expression I’d come to learn was the dragon’s version of a frown.  
"I’m fine," I lied as I patted her snout. Her presence calmed me, 
and my shoulder hurt less already. I held up the harness. "We’re 
going to go for a little flight. It seems I need to go shopping."  
"Ooh, will you get me something? " She lowered her head to let me slide 
the neck rope over it and down onto her chest.  
"Sure. I’ll see if I can find you a nice harness. Something flashy to 
make the other dragons jealous." The image o f a gem -encrusted 
breast plate flashed through my mind, and she nodded approvingly. I 
inspected my progress with the harness and pulled it off before 
rotating it and trying again. Hopefully, the new harness would be 
easier to put on.  
Satisfied, at last, th at I had it on her correctly, I climbed on and 
tied myself in. Then, we leapt into the air and flew out over the lake.  
"Where  are we going? " she asked.  
I bit my lip. " Hmm,  it looks like there is some smoke  on the horizon  to the 
north.  Maybe  that’s a village." 
She banked, and we started towards the grey wisps in the distance. 
I looked down as we flew over the camp. Below, Authand waved his 
hook in the air, shouting something that was lost on the wind. I 
Royal Dragoneer   96 
 waved back as we sped away over the vast expanse of for est that 
covered so much of the realm outside the capital.  
We settled into a languid pace, rising and falling as Farean caught 
thermal currents. I leaned into the ridge along her back, relaxing for 
the first time in days. There was nothing like a good fly to calm me. 
Farean loved to fly, and, despite my initial surprise at the revelation, I 
loved flying with her. Our happiness and contentment fed off each 
other until we were almost in a state of euphoria. I wished we could 
stay in the air forever, away from  court politics and peasant bullies.  
"We have company ", Farean said.  
"Where? " I twisted my head, looking for them.  
"Behind  us. A couple  miles back, but they’re  gaining  on us". The tiny red 
dot could have been anything, but I trusted Farean’s judgement. 
Florian must have so little to do that she would chase after me just to 
continue bullying me.  
"Let’s see if we can lose them in the forest,  "I suggested. As soon as the 
words formed in my mind, she dove below the treetops. Branches 
whipped past us, be she twi sted her body left and right, avoiding any 
collisions. We fell below the upper canopy and leveled out. There 
was no trail, and Farean had to constantly dodge the trunks jutting 
from the ground. But that would make it easier to lose our pursuers.  
A crashing  sound behind us announced they had dropped below 
the trees as well. I leaned forward and urged Farean to go faster. The 
forest blurred around us as she rose above one branch and below the 
next.  
"Stop!" a feminine voice cried behind us, making me look back . It 
wasn’t Florian at least, but I couldn’t think of any good reason for 
someone to be following me through the woods. I couldn’t see 
anyone, and Farean just kept going.  
I turned forward again and saw a giant oak looming ahead of us.  
"Watch  out!" I cried,  but Farean pumped her wings harder, ducking 
a smaller elm in our way. Moments from impact with the oak, she 
spread her wings and caught one of its branches with her rear legs.  
97  Ash Rober ts 
 Momentum carried us forward as her talons shredded the bark 
underneath. We rota ted around the bough and she let go. She 
pumped her wings to steady herself out as we flew in a completely 
different direction than before.  
I listened again, but the noise of those chasing us was receding.  
"That was amazing,  "I praised Farean,"  "my chest heaving with 
exhilaration.  
She replied in mumbled thanks, her attention elsewhere.  
I followed the direction of her head as she glanced up to avoid yet 
another obstacle and then back to the ground where a small grey 
rabbit ran through the underbrush.  
It duc ked into some heather, but Farean skimmed her claw 
through the plant. The rabbit bolted from its hiding spot and back 
into sight. Farean plucked it from the ground and rose back up to the 
mid-story of the forest, making it more difficult for someone to spo t 
us. Then she popped the rabbit into her mouth and swallowed it 
whole. I could feel her neck muscles work the meal down her gullet 
towards her stomach.  
I assumed her little snack meant we weren’t being chased 
anymore. She had heard them a mile away before . She would let me 
know if she heard them again.  
Farean slowed her pace and turned towards a creek, landing on the 
mossy bank gently. As she lapped at the water, and I felt the coolness 
on my own throat, which was nice because I didn’t really want to 
clamb er out of my harness for a drink.  
Farean finished drinking and we took off, staying beneath the tree 
cover, but that made it almost impossible to know which direction 
we were going. We’d long ago lost the smoke of the village or any 
other familiar landmark . I was afraid we were lost.  
"We are still heading  north, " Farean said, matter -of-factly. " I can sense 
directions.  It’s a dragon  thing." 
"So, you’re  like a homing  pigeon? " I asked, laughing.  
"No," she frowned inside my head. " I’m the thing that eats homing  
pigeons. " 
Royal Dragoneer   98 
 "Even so", I thought at her. " Let’s go back above the trees and get our 
bearings. " 
She rose and swerved around another tree. Her pace was more 
languid now. Her snack affected her more than I would have liked. 
As we crested, I saw that we were in deed still headed towards the 
smoke, which was closer now. There was no trace of the dragon that 
had been after us, just a lone hawk circling overhead.  
Clear of any threat, we rose higher and continued towards the gray 
column in the sky. The hawk above us screeched and dove at us. The 
sound was wrong, however, and I realized with a start it was the red 
dragon from before.  
Farean dipped back below the trees, but it was too late. Silver 
talons grabbed her tail, yanking us upward.  
Farean screamed in pain, and I joined her, crying out, as she 
thrashed and tried to free herself from the dragon’s grip. Thankfully, 
it was a small beast, not much larger or older than Farean, who 
grabbed a tree limb and hung on for dear life.  
The other dragon yanked, and we screamed once again as scales 
slaked off Farean’s tail.  
Without warning, the red let go, and we dropped, putting Farean’s 
full weight on the branch. The tree stood no chance against the full 
weight of a quarter -ton animal. The wood cracked and splintered 
before fal ling. As we flailed about, Farean got her wing caught under 
her foreleg. I reached for the joint, but it was too far from the 
harness. I untied the first rope holding me in, but Farean’s tumbling 
flipped us upside down.  
She cried in earnest now. Even if I could get the wing free, she 
couldn’t fly upside down. And I couldn’t get out of the harness with 
only gravity between me and the ground. The fall alone could be 
lethal, and even if I survived it, Farean might come crashing down on 
top of me.  
If that wasn’ t bad enough, the red came diving towards us, the way 
clear now that we’d bashed the forest apart.  
99  Ash Rober ts 
 As its shadow eclipsed us, all I could think was, " I’m sorry Farean.  I 
wish I’d been a better rider for you. " 
"I will be with you forever,  Kalia.  "She thoug ht back" . In death as in life". 

 
 
 
Just as my life flashed before my eyes, a young Elf leapt from the 
red dragon hovering over us. Rope uncoiled above her, and she 
landed with a thump onto Farean’s belly.  
It took every ounce of my willpower to turn and look at her, as 
Farean’s panic pounded through my chest.  
Esgeril hooked her legs around Farean’s neck. She leaned down 
but pulled back just before the whole world shuddered and blurred 
before a crack announced a nother tree limb yielding to our weight.  
Esgeril leaned down again, carefully, slowly, and pulled on 
Farean’s forelimb.  
Farean, panicked, instinctually fighting against her.  
"Tell her to relax," Esgeril said to me.  
"But we’re going to die," I answered.  
"Not if you do what I tell you. Now relax."  
I took a deep breath and then another. " Farean ", "let her help you". I 
sent to her, with calming vibes. " It’s our only hope." 
And, little by little, Farean relaxed the tension in her leg.  
Esgeril gave it another pul l and freed Farean’s wing. Before we 
had a chance to react, Esgeril gave a tug on her rope and rose from 
Farean. I looked up in time to see her dragon land on a branch clear 
of our destruction.  
Still looking up, my body lurched as Farean rolled and spread her 
wings to slow our descent. She pumped furiously and when we 
reached the next branch, she was able to grab hold of it. We landed 
hard against it but didn’t fall.  
Royal Dragoneer   102 
 I held my breath as my heartbeat slowed. Exhaling, I looked 
down. There was nothing below u s but ground. A scant twenty feet 
of air separated us from what would have been our last "landing." 
Farean trembled as that realization struck home for her as well.  
Esgeril and her dragon swept past us and landed on the ground a 
few feet away.  
Unwilling to  give up the grip that had been so hard won, Farean 
climbed down the trunk backwards like a treed cat. The going was 
slow, but neither of us wanted to be airborne just yet.  
Esgeril stood next to her red dragon, tapping her foot with arms 
crossed as we reac hed the ground.  
Once down, Farean collapsed onto the leafy forest floor, pressing 
herself to it like it was her best friend. I couldn’t blame her. I nearly 
tore the ropes off my harness in an attempt to dismount and kiss the 
ground myself.  
The final rope u ntied, I slid off her back in a maneuver that would 
have left my mother cringing if she’d witnessed it. I faked a stumble 
and sat next to my dragon digging my fingers into the soil. I looked 
up and caught Esgeril shaking her head.  
"Why were you chasing us? " I demanded, angry and full of 
needless adrenaline now that I wasn’t going to die. "You nearly killed 
us?" 
She flinched at my verbal assault, her eyes wide. "Nearly killed 
you? I saved your lives."  
Behind us, the dragons growled. " Let me deal with this, "I told 
Farean. "And thank you for that," I shouted at Esgeril. "But we 
wouldn’t have needed saving if you hadn’t attacked us."  
"If you hadn’t run away, we wouldn’t have had to chase you."  
"I had quite enough teasing for one day, thank you very much. I 
didn’t need you following me to town and harassing me more."  
"Harass? What are you talking about? Colonel Authand sent me 
after you because you’re not allowed to leave camp without 
permission."  
103  Ash Rober ts 
 "Well, I was going to town to get gear," I said, my anger waning a  
little. "Everybody keeps telling me as Dragoneer can’t wear dresses, 
but that’s all I have." I looked down at my sun dress, which was 
ripped in a dozen different spots now, not just the tear on the 
shoulder. Underneath, my skin was covered in scratches. B lood 
stained the torn fabric, but I couldn’t find the source on my body.  
Esgeril grinned at my sorry state. At first, she covered her mouth 
to hide the smile, but then her lips pursed, and her face contorted. 
Finally, she could hold it no longer and erupted into a full -on 
chuckle.  
"What’s so funny," I demanded.  
She ignored me as she dropped to her knees and beat the ground 
with her fists.  
"Stop it." I protested, but somehow found myself grinning too.  
She tried to compose herself but broke into another  fit of snorting 
laughter. Finally, she got it under control as she huffed for breath. 
"You were going the wrong direction," she said.  
"How was I supposed to know that. I don’t even know why I’m 
here. Everything I do is wrong."  
Her smile waned. "You’re new . And you don’t know much. That’s 
true. But you definitely belong here. That was some of the best flying 
I’ve ever seen."  
"Really? It was mostly Farean. And I’m sure it wasn’t anything 
special."  
Esgeril put a hand on my shoulder. "Both of my parents are 
Dragoneers; dragons practically raised me. I’ve never seen anyone 
maneuver through the woods like that. You should try out for the 
Dragon Race."  
The Dragon Race only happened once per century, and the 
winners’ species had bragging rights until the next one. Some had 
wanted the upcoming event cancelled due to the Goblin wars. The 
Nightbloods, the current trophy holders, had been the most vocal in 
favor of that plan. But my father had brokered a deal. In two years, 
the winner would lead the combined dragon armi es against the 
Royal Dragoneer   104 
 Goblins. But the idea of me and Farean winning was ridiculous. This 
was probably just another cruel joke Dragoneers pulled on unwanted 
first-years.  
"There’s no way I could win," I told Esgeril. "I probably wouldn’t 
even place in the qualifyi ng Run. People have spent their entire lives 
training for the Race."  
"They have." She nodded. "But half of them don’t show the skill 
you just demonstrated without any training at all. But it doesn’t 
matter to me if you enter." She shrugged. "If we don’t ge t you back, 
you’ll never be a Dragoneers anyway. If we hurry, there might still be 
time to go shopping today."  
She pulled herself onto her dragon’s back in a single motion and 
hooked herself into the harness. In a blink, they were airborne, rising 
up throu gh the hole in the forest canopy we’d made.  
Farean and I looked at each other. Neither of us was eager to fly 
again so soon, but we really didn’t have a choice. I trembled slightly 
as I mounted her and retied the knots on my makeshift harness. 
Farean lifte d off and we rose above the trees, taking a much more 
leisurely pace than Esgeril. They flew in meandering circles as they 
waited for us. Once we reached their altitude, they too off toward 
camp.  
We followed, but Farean stayed well behind. She wasn’t about  to 
let another dragon get within talon’s reach of her in the air again.  
The sun reached its zenith as we approached the camp. My 
stomach rumbled, reminding me that I hadn’t eaten since yesterday. 
After landing, I cast a glance towards the dining hall, but  Esgeril 
shook her head and took off towards the Colonel’s office. I could 
smell the scent of freshly baked bread wafting from the cafeteria, but 
I turned my back on it and followed after her.  
Being a dragon unconcerned by human rules and protocols, 
Farean  wandered towards where sides of beef were being handed out 
to dragons for their noon meal. I’d do anything to trade places with 
her right now.  
105  Ash Rober ts 
 The aide stood at the open door to the Colonel’s office, and he 
waved us in. We were obviously expected, but not  in a good way. I 
didn’t even have a chance for my eyes to adjust to the dim indoors 
before Colonel shouted, "Get in here right now! You, too. Esgeril."  
Her eyes grew large at being included, but she didn’t hesitate to 
follow me into the dragon’s den.  
The Colonel thumped his hook against his desk, chips of wood 
flying in various directions. "Kalia, maybe you could do whatever you 
pleased at the castle, but in the Dragoneers, we have rules that must 
be followed. You can’t run off without permission."  
"I didn ’t know."  
"That’s right, you didn’t. Because you haven’t bothered to learn 
the first thing about your duties. Starting tomorrow, you have no free 
time. When others are off relaxing, you’ll be reporting to Flatch for 
additional lessons. You will do this eve ry day until you’ve caught up 
with the rest of your hatching group."  
"Fine," I said. "But I need riding clothes. Apparently, my dresses 
aren’t quite sturdy enough."  
He looked over my tattered dress.  
I’d forgotten how much skin was exposed. I hunched my 
shoulders forward to make myself smaller.  
He shook his head. "No, they aren’t. But you must understand 
that Goblins have been spotted in this area, and the rules are there 
for your safety. You might feel invincible in the air, but greyskin are 
stealthy in the  wood. If you land your beast for a drink, you’re likely 
to find a blade coming out your chest." He raised his hook and 
waved it in front of me. "I lost my hand to Goblin’s defending your 
grandfather’s land because I got too cocky. And you know what 
happen ed to him. Don’t forget that. Never let your guard down."  
I gulped. No, I wouldn’t forget seeing my grandpa die. But I had 
forgotten the dangers that lurked, even after what had happened to 
Lewon and me on the way to Theron’s farm. I guess I had been so 
pissed off about the scrape with Florian and her gang, that I’d lost 
my head.  
Royal Dragoneer   106 
 "So, I have a quandary." The Colonel said. "You will be 
disciplined, but you also need riding gear before you can perform 
your punishment." He sat back down, a look of contemplation on his 
face. "You haven’t had a good start with the other girls, have you?" 
He asked.  
I shook my head, not meeting his gaze. I’d been taught grace and 
poise, but that didn’t seem to matter for anything out here. Instead, it 
had brought me sco rn and ridicule.  
He mulled the dilemma over, scratching at his chin with the blunt 
edge of his hook. Then, he seemed to finally remember that Esgeril 
was in the room with us. "Esgeril, you will accompany her to get 
gear, helping her discern what she needs.  And then you, Kalia," He 
turned back to me, "will spend tomorrow working in the stables for 
the stunt you pulled today."  
Esgeril gave me a sympathetic glance. Stable duty was bad. I had 
helped Theron clean out the pig sties a few times, and they were 
small animals, but it had been back -breaking work. And of course, I’d 
cleaned up after Farean, but she was petite for a dragon. But Esgeril 
didn’t argue about her duty, and neither did I. We both just nodded, 
and I gave out a soft, "Yes, sir."  
The Colonel was already examining a scroll on his desk. Without 
looking up he barked, "Dismissed!"  
We didn’t need to the told twice and quickly fled the office.  
"The town with shops is south of here," Esgeril said, heading for 
the stables. "We’d better head out before he changes his mind."  
I was starving, but maybe there would a chance to eat in town. At 
the stable, I had to pull Farean away from her meal, hoping she 
hadn’t eaten too much to affect her flying. She was grumpy about 
leaving again, and I couldn’t blame her. I  tied my rope harness 
together, and we were back in the air.  
Riders can’t really chat when they flew. The distance, wind, and 
velocity made it almost impossible to converse. That’s why our mind -
speak with our dragons was so useful. So, Esgeril and I rode i n 
silence for an hour before smoke on the horizon announced the 
107  Ash Rober ts 
 presence of a settlement. My stomach gurgled anew, and Farean 
picked up her pace, feeling my hunger. We landed at a wide pavilion 
made of black rocks. After we dismounted, the two dragons quic kly 
curled up upon the stones and I could feel Farean slip into a slumber. 
A path led into the village proper, and Esgeril and I started down it. I 
recited a list of what I thought I might need, and she nodded without 
speaking, picking up her pace. Despite  her being a full head shorter 
than me, I had to jog to keep up.  
Esgeril led me down the dirt street to the tradesmen’s section of 
town. I slowed at each food stall until she had mercy on me. She 
reached into a pouch and handed me some bread and a pinch of  
stimleaf. "Rule number one of being a Dragoneer. Always pack a 
snack, because you never know when your next meal will be. Now 
hurry and eat this before we go inside."  
I didn’t have to be told twice and wolfed it down, hardly bothering 
to chew.  
A bell on t he door gave a quiet ring as we entered a small shop. A 
short woman dressed in a leather vest over a faded blue dress popped 
her head out from behind a curtain. She saw Esgeril and smiled. 
"Dear, how have you been? Look at you, you’re getting so tall. I’m 
going to have to put a stack of rocks on your head." She brought 
Esgeril into a fierce hug, her head barely above that of the young 
Dragoneer.  
"Aunt Tirada, this is Princess Kalia." Esgeril extracted herself 
from the older woman’s grasp.  
Tirada stopped bre athing a moment. Her eyes widened before 
springing into action, dropping to a knee so fast that she nearly took 
her niece down with her.  
I blushed for the millionth time today. "Please, stand up. Besides, 
I’m not even a princess anymore." I frowned.  
She ro se and wrapped her arms around me. "I’d heard rumors that 
there was an upheaval in the capital with dragons involved, but didn’t 
know they involved you, my child."  
I stiffened. "I’m not a child," my voice cracked.  
Royal Dragoneer   108 
 She pulled away from me, staring into my e yes. "No, of course 
not. You are a beautiful young woman and now a Dragoneer to boot. 
Once you adjust to the changes in your life, there will be nothing to 
stop you." She glanced over my torn dress. Not for the first time 
today, I wished I’d had a chance t o change before we left. "Now I’m 
guessing you came for some proper riding gear?"  
I nodded, and she whirled into motion. She plucked a tape 
measure from nowhere and took measurements which she chalked 
onto a slate she kept tucked in her apron pocket. Withi n a minute she 
had measured every inch of me as thoroughly as the Royal Taylor did 
in an hour.  
"You’re in luck," she said, smiling. "You’re almost an exact match 
for riding gear I was already working on. I can adjust it and have it 
ready this afternoon. I’ ll just make a new set for the customer it was 
intended for."  
"I couldn’t –" I started, but she put a hand up and shushed me.  
"Tut-tut," she said. "She won’t be back until next week anyway. 
That gives me plenty of time. Do you need a harness?"  
I looked at the rope marks on my arms and my ankles and 
nodded.  
"Farean is about ten hands tall and maybe five wide," Esgeril said. 
"But she’s only as old as Baran. My guess is she will be near twice 
that by the time she is full -grown."  
Tirada nodded and disappeared i nto the back. She returned with a 
heavy looking saddle with straps longer than my arm that terminated 
in steel buckles. She handed it to me, and I nearly threw it in the air, 
surprised by how light it was. My hand slid over the saddle. Like the 
harness its elf, it weighed next to nothing.  
She noticed my puzzlement and explained, "Aluminte. It’s difficult 
to get but extremely light."  
My hand instinctively went for my purse. I had a fair amount, 
probably more than anyone else at the training camp. But it would n’t 
last forever, and I didn’t think I would ever see another dime from 
my parents.  
109  Ash Rober ts 
 "I might need something a little more basic," I admitted.  
"No, you misunderstand," Tirada said. "This is a gift. And I’m so 
glad to see Esgeril has made a friend. She’s been so withdrawn since 
her father died."  
Esgeril glared at her aunt. "I have not. I’ve just been busy. 
Speaking of which, Kalia needs to see if that harness fits, and you 
have a suit of leathers to finish." She tugged at my arm and pulled me 
towards the d oor. 
"I—well, thank you." I stammered. "Still, I must pay you 
something." But Esgeril had already pulled me out to the street.  
"You can argue with her about payment when we come back for 
the riding leathers," she said. "But I can already tell you, you’ll l ose."  
I followed her, shifting the saddle to a two -handed grip as I 
struggled to keep up with her half -run towards the dragon stones. 
She turned a corner, and I called, "Wait up."  
Around the building, she stood waiting, impatiently tapping her 
foot. 
"Hey, what’s the rush?" I asked. "We can’t leave until the leathers 
are done anyway, and your aunt was really nice."  
"I know," she said, rolling her eyes. "My entire family is painfully 
nice."  
"And that bothers you?" I asked, incredulous.  
"Listen," she said, sto pping and whirling toward me. "I love my 
family, okay, but they always look on the bright side. They always 
have a smile for everyone. Or a kind word or deed. And things aren’t 
always rainbows and happiness. Sometimes things suck, and they just 
don’t get t hat." 
"Okay," I said, taken back by her vehemence. "So, you’re sad, and 
they don’t get that?" I took a stab at her problem with her overly -
cheerful family.  
"Exactly!" she threw up her arms in frustration. "My father died 
nine months ago, and I’m supposed t o be over it? I’m supposed to 
put on a happy face and smile for the family, so they won’t worry 
about me. I don’t know how they can just move on like he never 
Royal Dragoneer   110 
 existed. It’s not right. Who will remember him if we don’t? It’s like 
they’re erasing his existen ce with their smiles and pat phrases. And 
every time I see them, they expect me to erase him too." She 
stopped, tears glistening in her eyes, glancing around and realizing we 
were still on the street, though no one was really paying attention to 
us. 
"I saw  my grandpa die when I was five." I said, feeling her pain. 
"No one can ever erase that. How did your father die?"  
"It was a Goblin ambush," Esgeril said. "My parents were riding 
on a routine patrol when a net caught mom’s dragon and dad caught 
a spear try ing to cut them loose." I could see her knuckles turning 
white as she pressed her fingers into her palms. "The day he died, I 
vowed I’d become a Dragoneer and avenge his death." She took off, 
headed around another corner and I followed, our dragons coming 
into view as we rounded it.  
Farean picked up her head, cocking it slightly. " Baran  says they will 
kill every Goblin  in the kingdoms ". "Is that our job now?" 
"Goblins killed Esgeril’s father," I explained.  
Farean’s eyes narrowed. " Then we will help them". 
I couldn’t imagine ever killing someone, even as hideous a creature 
as a Goblin. I mean, I knew it would be part of my job as a 
Dragoneer. But I had once thought just like Esgeril about dragons —
that they were hideous beasts —that they should all die because of 
what one had done to my grandfather. And now I had a dragon as a 
best friend and companion. Was it possible we had misjudged 
Goblins in the same manner?  
It was a startling thought, but one I couldn’t easily dismiss.  
 
 
 
I put my new harness on Farean’s back and Esgeril showed me 
how to connect the straps. The front went on the opposite side of 
her forelegs than I had put the ropes. The saddle felt firmer and 
much more secure. The scalloped underside of the buc kles fit against 
the scales of her belly as if they had been molded to them.  
Esgeril directed Farean to fly and do some loops to see how she 
could move in it. I stepped forward, but she put a hand on my 
shoulder. "You don’t have your gear yet. There’s noth ing for the 
straps to connect to. And riding without a harness usually ends 
poorly."  
I thought back to my first ride when I had slid from Farean’s back 
before she was more than a few feet in the air. I nodded. " Go on," I 
told Farean. " Fly without  me. I’ll be down here admiring  your grace." 
Exhilarated by my flattery, she leapt into the air. Baran followed 
Farean into the sky and they swooped around each other, diving at 
each other in mock attacks and generally frolicking in the sun.  
"Baran is a male?" I ask ed blushing, but the answer was obvious 
by what her dragon displayed when he flew overhead. "I thought 
dragons only bonded with riders of the same gender."  
"Sometimes they don’t." Esgeril didn’t add anything more to that.  
We watched them in silence for som e time before I heard Farean 
whine. " Aww,  I don’t want to". Baran landed on the rocks and Farean 
followed him to the ground. I removed the harness and placed it with 
Esgeril’s in a large metal box near the edge of the pavilion.  
We were halfway back to Tira da’s shop before I broke the silence. 
"If you don’t mind telling me, I was wondering what happened to 
your father’s dragon after he died."  
Royal Dragoneer   112 
 She slowed almost to a stop. "The bond between a Dragoneer and 
dragon is very strong. Unbreakable. I’ve known Dragone ers who lost 
their dragon and have barely been able to function after that. Some 
don’t. The Dragoneers have a home in the mountains where those 
who can’t take it are sent, broken husks of Elves and other races so 
catatonic that the healers have to feed and  bathe them."  
I shuddered at the thought. "But what if the dragon survives their 
rider?" I couldn’t imagine similar homes for dragons.  
"A dragon that’s lost their rider is dangerous. They lose their 
minds. They have to be put down or they will attack anyon e, even 
friends."  
"Is that what happened to…"  
"To Niden? No. Dad died in battle. If a rider -less dragon in peace 
is dangerous, one in battle is even more so. Niden took down an 
entire company of Goblins before being brought down by their 
archers. It allowe d mom and Susa to escape." Her voice caught again, 
and this time tears openly rolled down her cheeks. I thought she was 
done speaking, but she resumed. "Then those beasts, those 
abominations, they ate him. Goblins eat dragon met, and they ate 
dad’s dragon in front of his corpse."  
I had no words to comfort her. In fact, I was kind of feeling 
traumatized and in need of comfort myself. Fortunately, we had 
arrived at Tirada’s shop, and I could turn my mind to other matters.  
As we entered, Tiranda was pushing a wooden mannequin out to 
the floor. On it were the new riding leathers, the same Aluminte 
buckles shining around the waist, waiting to accept the straps from 
Farean’s harness. The breastplate was dyed blue nearly equal in color 
to her scales, although, look ing closer, I noticed the royal gold and 
black woven into the stitching. The design reversed for the pants 
with black suede inlaid with blue.  
I sucked in my breath. "It’s beautiful. But how did you make it so 
quickly?"  
Tirada shook her head. "Like I told y ou. This was nearly finished 
already. It needed only some minor modifications. And a happy 
113  Ash Rober ts 
 accident that both your dragon and the originally client’s are Blue. I 
sent your measurements to a tailor and had some more day -to-day 
clothes sent over." She pointe d to a bundle tied in sackcloth on a 
wooden chair. "There’s only a couple sets, but it should get you 
through until you can get back to order a new wardrobe when you 
have more time."  
I looked down at my feet, still clad in the leather boots Theron 
had give n me. "That may be a while." I said, thinking about Authand 
and how little he trusted me.  
"Well, we hope to see you again soon." Tiranda smiled. "If you 
want to change out of that dress, you can use my workroom behind 
the curtain," she said, pointing.  
"I can help if you want," Esgeril said shyly. "Riding leathers can be 
a little confusing the first time."  
"Thank you," I said, grabbing the bundle of clothes while Esgeril 
wheeled the mannequin through the curtain. The area dwarfed the 
front of the shop and li ght streamed through large windows on either 
side positioned high on the walls to capture the most daylight. The 
space was tidy, with even the sheets of leather meticulously stacked 
with edges aligned. Father always said that an organized workspace 
was a s ign of a master craftsman.  
I quickly shed my tattered dress. I gave my chest wrap a cursory 
inspection, but it seemed to have made it through my adventures 
unscathed. Tiranda had given me two functional sets of clothing in 
brown, similar to the ones that E sgeril wore under her riding garb. 
The shirt gave me no problem, but the breeches only reached mid -
thigh before getting stuck.  
I lowered them, but Esgeril put her hand on my arm. "You forgot 
to undo the clasp." Her hand moved to a wooden toggle between my 
legs, accidentally brushing the inside of my thigh. The touch made 
me shudder. It was involuntary, embarrassing, and Esgeril definitely 
noticed, immediately jerking her hand away.  
"The only trousers I’ve ever worn were much too big on me, and I 
could just slide them up. I never wore pants before I was thrown 
Royal Dragoneer   114 
 out," I said sheepishly. "Mother said it wasn’t ladylike." I studied the 
toggle intently, and then fumbled with pushing it through the hole.  
"And you’ve never opened the fly of somebody cute, hidden fro m 
sight in some dark corner of the castle?" She grinned lecherously at 
me. 
"What? No! I had a boyfriend. We were engaged, but all we ever 
did was kiss. There was always some servant around to keep an eye 
on us." I didn’t like thinking of Etlin. I’d been av oiding thinking of 
him for weeks. And now I was beginning to realize our relationship 
hadn’t been the romantic, passionate courtship I’d imagined it to be. 
There was so much I didn’t know about boys. And despite the fact 
that it looked like Lewon had set m e up this morning, I still felt 
drawn to him. I gave a sidelong glance at Esgeril, daring to ask, "Do 
you think that’s something Lewon would expect me to do?"  
Her expression darkened at his name. "He comes from the west." 
She shrugged. "They favor  fast, hot courtships there. Why? Do you 
fancy him?"  
"Yeah," I admitted. "I wouldn’t mind his parents, err, his guardian, 
arranging a match with mine."  
She snorted in laughter, not even bothering to cover her mouth. 
"Arranging a match?" she choked out. "Th at’s rich. Dragoneers don’t 
arrange marriage. We rarely bother with marrying at all."  
The color drained from my face. "Not even your parents?"  
The mention of her recently deceased father sobered her quickly. 
"They loved each other very much. More than the couples in your 
fancy court, I’d bet. But when ma had me, dad simply moved in with 
her, and they informed their commander they would need to ride in 
the same company."  
It didn’t seem right to me, but the look on Esgeril’s face made me 
drop the subject. She  scowled to herself while I examined my 
reflection in the polished metal mirror in the corner. The garments fit 
well, much better than I would have expected from a provincial 
tailor. I was beginning to rethink my belief that the capital had all the 
115  Ash Rober ts 
 best tr adespeople. I picked up the leathers and held them up to 
Esgeril.  
Wordlessly, she took them from me and directed my limbs into 
the appropriate holes, like her personal puppet. I felt badly that I’d 
upset her asking about her parents. But I couldn’t take it  back.  
I fastened the buckles and examined myself again. They fit like a 
second skin, tight enough to keep from binding but loose enough to 
allow free movement. As I admired myself, Esgeril stormed out, 
pushing past the curtain.  
I followed her out to the m ain part of the shop, but she was 
already out the door, standing on the curb, her shoulders hunched.  
Tiranda followed my gaze and shook her head. "She just needs 
some space. Just be there for her as a friend. That is the best thing 
for her. If you can do t hat, I will consider myself the better end of 
the bargain for your leathers."  
"You don’t have to buy my friendship," I protested. "I need a 
friend as much as she does. And I have to pay you something. At 
least let me cover the cost of materials."  
"Not toda y, young lady. I insist." Her face hardened, and I 
withered under her glare. She giggled at my expression, her face 
softening. "Esgeril is my only remaining family. I would give anything 
to see her happy again. And her father’s death isn’t the only thing 
she’s dealing with. Now go, before she takes off and you get lost in 
town." She pushed me in the direction of the door just as Esgeril 
stepped off the curb, heading back toward our dragons without me.  
I looked back, breathed, "thank you," and left, chasing Esgeril 
down the street.  
We reached the dragons in silence. I was getting a little tired of the 
cold-shoulder treatment but remembered Tirada’s advice to just be 
present. Esgeril waited in silence for me to strap myself into my new 
harness on Farean’s back . It took a couple of tries, but she didn’t say 
anything or offer advice from her position on Baran’s back. Then, we 
lifted off and rode back to camp, arriving as the sun approached the 
horizon.  
Royal Dragoneer   116 
 After we landed, I removed the harness and set it in a box in  the 
stable with Farean’s name on it. Tomorrow, I’d be cleaning the 
stable, polishing and oiling other rider’s saddles, and who knew what 
other back -breaking work. And I wasn’t looking forward to it.  
I looked up to find that Esgeril was already gone.  
Someh ow, I’d managed to make my first female Dragoneer friend 
and lose her, all in the same day. So much for Tirada’s vote of 
confidence in me. Mother always said I asked too many questions —
that I was too curious. But I didn’t know how to be any other way.  
I made my way back to my room, catching glares and stares from 
Florian and her friends. I dropped to my straw mattress, not 
bothering to change.  
It wasn’t until I was about to fall asleep that I remembered the 
after-dinner training meeting at the lake Lewon ha d promised me.  
Had he waited there for me, wondering why I hadn’t come? Or 
had his invitation been just another joke to humiliate the princess 
Dragoneer?  
I had no idea. And honestly, at that point, I was too tired to care.  
 
 
 
I stood before the entrance to the dragon stables in the early 
morning light. I was beginning to understand why Father chewed 
stimleaf every morning. Thinking of him brought a twinge, as always. 
But if this was to be my lot in life, I was de termined to make the 
most of it.  
Metal clanged behind me. "You’ll need these," Esgeril said. She 
held a bucket in one hand and a rake in the other. "These should be 
inside, but I overheard Florian last night. Don’t expect to find any 
supplies."  
"Thank you, " I tried to meet her gaze, but I guess what I had said 
the day before was still too raw, and she looked away. "Where are 
yours?" I asked.  
"It's not my punishment." She jammed her fists in her pockets. 
Dragoneer pockets were designed for function, unlike the clothing 
I'd once owned. Half of my outfits didn't even have pockets. What 
need did I have to carry things? I had servants for that. But now I 
could carry supplies for a day or more in the pouches that adorned 
my clothing. Or, apparently the hands of s omebody that was upset at 
me for reasons she wouldn't say.  
"Just do yourself a favor," Esgeril said after a pause. "Don't say 
anything like that to the others. It won't —" The toe of her boot slid 
through the dirt between us. "It won't end well for you." Wi th that 
cryptic message, she turned and left.  
Has Baran  told you what's  going on?I asked Farean. Because  I'm lost. 
He says that it is beneath  the affairs  of dragons.  I'm going back to sleep. 
Menoth  is in heat, and I got no sleep last night due to the males boasting  of how 
they would  mate her. 
Royal Dragoneer   118 
 I blushed at the image she sent over and my mind slipped to 
Lewon. Would he fight others for my hand? I imagine Etlin’s father 
had argued with the other dukes over whose toddler would marry me 
one day.  
None of this remi niscing about my life before the hatching would 
get me through my punishment more quickly. Clutching Esgeril's 
rake and bucket, I pushed open the door.  
Mucking the pens at Theron's had prepared me somewhat for the 
smell, but dragons were much bigger creatu res than pigs. Stalls lined 
all four walls for the distance of the building. It seemed smaller on 
the inside, until I realized the far wall was a divider for the other half. 
Just as the boys and girls at the camp were separated, so were our 
dragons. That m eant that Esgeril had to walk the entire length of the 
massive building just to enter from the boy's side.  
"It's about time you showed up." The laughter of several girls 
broke me from my thoughts. "Thinking you're just going to waltz in 
here after we're al l done?" I didn't need to look up. I'd only heard 
Florian’s voice once, but I wouldn’t forget it. I had a feeling I'd be 
hearing a lot of it over the next three years. "Don't worry, we 
wouldn't dream of denying her highness what she deserves."  
I looked ove r to the stall where they were sitting. Florian leaned 
against her Green dragon's hide which seemed to melt into the 
shadows behind her. The other girls from yesterday arranged 
themselves on pails nearby. Florian’s dragon’s stall was immaculate, 
but the ot hers were untouched.  
"I'm sorry about yesterday. I don't want any trouble," I said.  
"Then you better get to work. We've got our stalls covered. You 
can take care of the rest. But you better hurry. Somebody told 
Authand that you were avoiding your punishmen t." On that cue, the 
girls scattered to their own stalls as the door opened behind me.  
"Why aren't you cleaning?" The Colonel's voiced boomed behind 
me. 
119  Ash Rober ts 
 I whirled around with the rake still in my hand. Authand grabbed 
the implement from me before it hit hi s face and threw it at my feet. 
Even the dragons fell silent as they waited for his reaction.  
"I'm sorry," I said in a small voice. Why was I always saying that 
here? It was like I could never get anything right.  
He didn't move; he barely even breathed. Wh en Father got like 
that, I knew what came next wouldn't be good.  
"Why aren't you cleaning?" He repeated at last. "Why isn't anyone 
cleaning? Do you all want another day of punishment?" He said, 
louder. The words echoed off the stone walls. Florian and her friends 
scurried back to work, leaving me with an empty bucket and an angry 
Dragoneer.  
"I just got here. " I admitted after my ears stopped ringing.  
"Another day's punishment for tardiness." Authand looked like he 
was going to say something else but left i nstead.  
I leaned down to pick up the rake, but Florian stepped on the 
handle, pinning it to the floor. "You don't belong here," she said.  
"Don't you think I know that?" I stood, facing here. She was 
nearly a head taller than me and I had to look up to meet  her glare.  
She crossed her arms over her chest. "What a waste of a dragon. 
They shouldn't let you nobles come to the hatchings. There's 
someone out there who has worked hard their entire life, 
heartbroken and stuck in their life because you took their cha nce to 
become a Dragoneer."  
Florian turned her head back towards her companions who had 
mucked out their stalls into the central hallway. It was the space the 
dragons fed into when they entered through holes in the ceiling. 
"Come on, girls. We're done. The  rest is for her highness." Without a 
word, they filed past me.  
Over the next four hours, I carefully cleaned out each dragon's 
stall. As the day progressed, they woke and left. Their great wings 
spun over the muck pile, and I had to take several breaks to  move it 
outside. Other riders entered to tend to their dragons, but they 
ignored me as I worked. Was this how the maids in the castle had felt 
Royal Dragoneer   120 
 when I’d pretended they weren't even in the room with me unless I’d 
needed something? It was a horrible feeling and I vowed I would do 
better if I was ever allowed to return.  
 
 
 
The next morning, I followed Esgeril to a small arena near the 
dragon pavilion for the first class of the day —Tactics. But the 
professor, a small  woman with deep lines in her face, turned me 
away. "You are so far behind, dear, that you have no clue what is 
going on. Authand wants you to report to Flatch, instead."  
The Dragoneers who had arrived before us stared at me as I left 
the room, murmuring b etween themselves, undoubtedly discussing 
how much of a fool I’d made of myself once again. I went back 
outside and realized that I did not know how to find Flatch or even 
who he was. I turned and steeled myself to go back in and ask in 
front of everyone, cementing my reputation as the camp idiot.  
"Ho," a raspy voice called behind me. A whitehaired Elf stood 
hunched over where there had been no one a moment before. 
"Follow me." He turned sharply and strode across the grounds.  
Figuring he couldn’t possibly b e a new rider, I chased after him. I 
was surprised by how quickly he moved and was huffing by the time 
we reached a small hut by the lake. He pointed at a small rock half 
buried in the sand, and I took the hint to sit.  
"In the mornings, I will teach you th eory and, in the afternoon, 
you will go with Lewon to train."  
Had Lewon asked for that privilege or been assigned to me? Well, 
at least I’d get to ask him if he’d set me up in the Capture the Flag 
game.  
"Did you say something? Speak up, girl. My hearing is n’t what it 
used to be."  
"I didn’t say anything."  
Royal Dragoneer   122 
 "Good. Best to keep your mouth shut and your ears open." He 
disappeared into the hut and came back with a wooden chair that he 
placed in front of my rock, finally introducing himself as Flatch. He 
then sett led into his chair before launching into a history of the 
Dragoneers. My mind wandered, and I paid more attention to the 
position of the sun than to the lecture. I tracked its progress to its 
zenith thinking of seeing Lewon again. Finally, the bells tolled , 
signaling lunch. I said a quick thanks to Flatch for the lesson I had 
ignored and rushed off to the dining hall.  
After lunch, Farean and I flew to the spot by the lake where 
Lewon had said he would meet me. Calen splashed in the lake while 
Lewon whittled  away at a stick with a mean looking knife.  
"Sticks  are boring ". Farean commented, as we set down on the 
sandy beach. " Except  the big sticks Goblins  make to puncture  dragon  hide". 
My poor little dragon baby was growing up and learning the 
dangers of the wo rld. The thought made me sad.  
I fumbled with my harness buckles, hoping Lewon wouldn’t 
notice.  
I climbed down and took the saddle off Farean, saying, "Well, go 
on, then. Have fun and see what Calen can teach you." She took a 
running jump into the shallows and landed with a splash that 
threatened to soak me despite my distance.  
Lewon shoved his stick point down into the ground and folded his 
knife before acknowledging my presence. "You sure know how to 
get yourself in trouble. In just one day, you managed to  find more 
trouble than most Dragoneers find their entire first year."  
"Maybe I had some help," I said angrily, eyeing him. "You pointed 
me to a flag with a Green ambush around it, promising I’d the hero 
of the game. And somehow, it didn’t work out that wa y." 
"You think I set you up?" He asked, sounding hurt. "Do you really 
believe that of me after all we’ve been through together?" He was 
upset, that much was obvious. But was it because he’d been falsely 
accused, or caught in the act?  
123  Ash Rober ts 
 "I don’t know," I said , moving toward him. "Yesterday I was 
humiliated, mocked by my peers, tossed by a giant, almost died crash -
landing into a forest, didn’t eat all day, and managed to piss off the 
one other person who’s been remotely nice to me. It was a really bad 
day."  
"Well, now you’ve managed to piss off both people who’ve been 
nice to you," he said, but he was grinning. "You seem to have a real 
knack for it."  
"I know." I nodded, my blond curls falling in my face. "I’m very 
talented. Which is exactly why I need your help.  Please teach me so I 
don’t get into any more trouble."  
He shook his head. "I’m going to teach you how to fight. How to 
defend yourself and how to attack. Not really skills that will get you 
in less trouble." He pulled a scabbard down from the tree branch 
he’d been sitting under and handed it to me. "This is a practice 
sword. Completely dull edge."  
I held the short -sword. It was heavier than I expected. How did 
everyone carry these things around?  
"I don’t see why you need that," Farean complained, pausing h er 
splashing in the shallows. " Surely  a sword  is no match  for my talons ". 
"Because you won’t always be on dragon -back," Lewon answered 
as if he’d heard her. Maybe Calen had passed along what Farean had 
said. "Now hold up your sword," he instructed.  
I raised it above my head with both hands, then saw him grasping 
his one handed in front of his chest. I quickly lowered mine, passing 
it from hand to hand as if checking for balance before settling it into 
my right hand and assuming a similar position.  
He blinked. "You’re right handed? That’s going to make this more 
difficult. I’ve never met anyone before who didn’t favor their left."  
My face soured. "We spent nearly three full days together and you 
didn’t realize I was a righty?" Righties like me were rar e, sometimes 
considered abominations among the lower classes. If I had been a 
child in a trade, my right hand would have been tied behind my back 
until I’d learned to work with my left. But being a princess had 
Royal Dragoneer   124 
 certain advantages, including the right to us e whatever hand I 
preferred.  
But Lewon hadn’t even noticed until now. Which either meant he 
didn’t care about the stigma, or he didn’t care about me enough to 
notice.  
I lunged at him with my sword.  
He took a step to his right, dropping away from my thrust with 
ease. 
I swung again, and he blocked. I made several more attempts, each 
more impotent than the last, until I stood bent over, huffing from the 
exertion.  
"That wasn’t bad for your first try,’ Lewon praised me. "Now that 
I’ve seen your natural stance an d style, I know what I need to teach 
you."  
"You made me mad on purpose?" I managed in between pants, as 
my glare softened.  
"Of course. Righties tend to be sensitive about it. It was a sure 
way to get you riled up." He smiled.  
I couldn’t believe he’d baited  me like that. And I’d fallen for it, 
hook, line, and sinker. I was going to have to be careful around this 
one. He already knew me to well for his own good. And for mine.  
I turned just in time to see Farean, in flight, burst through the 
trees with Calen h ot on her trail. I hadn’t even noticed them leave the 
lake. Farean tucked her wings in and dove towards the water. My 
heart pounded as she approached it with rising speed. At the last 
moment, she unfurled her wings and glided over the lake, her wing 
tips m aking ripples in the still water.  
Calen made for her, but Farean reached the warm sand and rode 
the updraft like an arrow shot from a bow. She curved up and behind 
him, tagging his rump with her snout before dropping down and 
landing on the sand without so  much as a cloud. Calen landed next to 
her. " He says I’m a natural ", Farean squealed in my head. " I’ll be flying 
with the year two’s in weeks ". 
125  Ash Rober ts 
 "You however," Lewon said to me, "have a lot to learn. And I 
can’t say that you have much affinity for a blade."  
"Hmph. Don’t forget I’ve never held a sword before today. At the 
castle, the servants even cut my meat. If I’m so bad, you better get to 
work training me."  
"Then follow my lead. We will start with how to hold yourself." 
He stood with his legs spread, faci ng me. I tried to follow his 
example, but he frowned. "No, square your shoulders."  
I twisted my body which elicited a head shake.  
"No, no. Here’s let me show you."  
He closed the gap between us and put his hands on my shoulders, 
pushing them into the positi on he wanted. I felt warm at his touch 
and tried to think of something else before the blush appeared at my 
ears. 
"How long have you been practicing this?" I nodded at the blade 
in my hand.  
"Ever since Authand found me after the Goblins sacked my 
village. That day, I swore I would never be defenseless again."  
It seemed everyone at camp had a story of tragedy dealing with the 
Goblin war. All this time, I’d blamed the dragon that killed my 
grandfather and not the Orc who rode it.  
"And my job is to make sure y ou aren’t defenseless either," Lewon 
said. "So, let’s focus on defensive skills. I will attack, and I want you 
to defend yourself from me." He backed up a few steps and then 
came rushing at me.  
I raised my sword, but he easily slipped past my guard and landed 
the broadside of his weapon on my shoulder.  
"Ouch." I dropped my sword in surprise and rubbed where he’d 
hit me. I could already feel the welt forming under my tunic.  
"Pick it up!" he barked. I bent down, and by the time I was 
standing he was on top  of me. I raised my sword, but he was faster. 
He brought the pommel down on my head gently enough to allay any 
damage but still hard enough to hurt.  
Royal Dragoneer   126 
 He backed off, and I returned to the stance he had demonstrated 
earlier. He moved again. This time I blocke d his blow but fell 
backward from the impact. My head bounced against the hard 
ground and stars flashed before my eyes.  
"Hold!" I cried. I tried to sit up, but red -hot throbbing stopped 
me. 
He was beside me in a flash. "Are you okay?" His hands grabbed 
my shoulders as he pulled me up and inspected my scalp.  
I blinked away the worst of the pain and panted. "I’ll be okay; I 
just need to rest a minute."  
He nodded but said nothing. He sat down beside me and stared at 
me. His gaze unsettled me. Perhaps my fall w as more serious than I 
thought.  
I felt a rush of air and Farean landed beside me, sending soothing 
thoughts to my aching head. The leaves on the ground fluttered in 
the air currents she created. A melon -sized black rock with red 
streaks poked from the grou nd where her talons had disturbed the 
grass. I grabbed the rock and pulled it from the dirt. "What’s this?" I 
held it up, inspecting it. The red glittered in the filtered sunlight 
looking for the all world like blood flowing through its veins.  
Lewon grabbe d it out of my hands.  
"Hey!" I shrieked. I tried to stand to take it back but was 
overcome by dizziness and sat back down.  
He bent and gently placed it on the ground under a bush several 
feet away. He lowered it as gently as an egg before returning his 
attention to me.  
"That is firerock. It is rare in this part of the world, but very 
dangerous. If you had dropped that, it would have killed us all." He 
stood and held out his hand. I grabbed hold of it and he pulled me to 
my feet. The world spun around me and  I wobbled. "We’re done for 
the day," he said. "Farean, get Kalia back to camp, and to a healer. A 
head knock can be serious. I’d escort you, but I need to take that 
chunk of firerock into town so that it can be disposed of properly."  
127  Ash Rober ts 
 He helped me onto Far ean’s back and fastened my buckles, his 
hands grazing my stomach and thighs.  
I sucked my breath, relishing his touch. I thought about reaching 
out and touching him back —the damp hair curled at the back of his 
neck, or the sharp curve of his jawline. But I wasn’t brave enough.  
He finished his work and gave Farean a pat on the rump. "Fly as 
smooth as a red and get her back safely," he told her. She nodded at 
him and jumped into the sky.  

 
 
 
The jolt of Farean laun ching into the sky sent me reeling. My 
hands slipped from her neck ridge, but the harness held. I regained 
my hold and drew myself in close to her body. The ground rushing 
below us made my head hurt even more, so I caused my eyes. The 
day was still early, but I was so tired. Farean knew the way. I could 
just take a nap while we flew.  
"I’m worried  for you. You don’t feel right." Her words pulled me back to 
awareness.  
"What  do you mean?  I’m just tired and my head hurts". I patted her side 
as her powerful shou lders flexed in time to her beating wings.  
"No, something  is wrong.  I should  heal you". No sooner had she finished 
thinking those words than she started descending below the treetops.  
"Silly dragon.  You can’t heal me. Just take me to the healer  for some herb 
heads. " "No, that’s not right." 
"See, even your thoughts  are all wrong. " "And I have something  better than 
herbs.  I have magic. " 
"Since when do you have magic"? "Is this a real conversation  or is it a dream?  
It feels like dream. " 
"Baran  says magic flows through  a dragon  like blood.  We are the channel,  but 
our Dragoneers  are the source.  And you are awake,  but you feel fuzzy. " 
"But I don’t have magic". I protested" . Hardly  anybody  has magic 
anymore. " 
Farean landed on a bed of leaves with hardly a rustle. " Magic  is 
strong  in you. I can feel it. Now,  get off. I can’t do anything  from below you." 
I struggled with the buckles and slid to the ground. As soon as I 
was off, she turned and stood over me. The blur of motion made me 
dizzy, and I collapsed to my knees . 
Royal Dragoneer   130 
 "That’s  a good idea. Lie down,  "she ordered.  
I crumpled the rest of the way in compliance and felt her breath 
on my scalp. I tensed, all my old childhood fears of dragon attacks 
rising to the surface of my thoughts.  
"Oh, don’t be ridiculous.  "Hurt crept into her voice. " I would  never hurt 
you". 
I felt a talon touch against a tender spot on the back of my skull 
and winced, crying out as if she were stabbing into my flesh.  
"This is not good." "A wound  like this killed  Vernis’s  rider"." Her tone 
was now ting ed with fear.  
"Who?" I turned my head, forgetting to communicate mentally.  
"Shush ". "I need to concentrate  and draw out your dormant  magic. " Her hot 
breath blew against my head and I felt the lump tingle. She blew 
again, and the tingling intensified until it burned. I cried out, but 
Farean pressed against me, keeping me immobile.  
A felt her breath a third time. I squirmed but she was much too 
strong for me. Then the burning stopped, replaced by a dull ache 
which also faded after a few minutes. Her weight sh ifted, and her 
breath tickled gently on my neck as she peered closely at the knot.  
"That’s  much better". She lifted herself off me and sat on her 
haunches.  
I reached a hand to the back of my head and the bruise from 
earlier was gone. It was still a little tender, but the swelling had 
subsided.  
"See, magic. " She gave me that odd, slightly menacing look that 
dragons had when they attempted to mimic a smile.  
I sat up, the dizziness gone. "Well, let’s get back. If Lewon sent 
word about my concussion, the entire  camp will be searching for us." 
I leapt onto her back, feeling more energy than I had since being 
exiled from the castle.  
We broke through the treetops just in time to catch Lewon and 
Calen rising up from the camp. They spotted us and circled above 
until we approached for our landing. Lewon was on his feet and at 
my side as I slid from Farean’s back.  
131  Ash Rober ts 
 "You got rid of the firerock already?" I asked him.  
"You’ve been gone over an hour. What happened? Are you okay?"  
"I’m fine. I had some, uh, private business to attend to." The lie 
came surprisingly easily, and I felt a little bad. But I wanted to know 
more about Farean’s magical revelation before I told anyone.  
"Go see the healer." Lewon gently pushed me towards the low 
building where the healer worked. "I wil l take care of your harness 
and Farean."  
I shook my head, thankful it didn’t hurt or make me dizzy. "No, I 
really am fine. The flight back did the trick."  
He looked at me and sighed. "If you say so. But I’ll make sure 
Esgeril checks on you later."  
I ignored his comment while I unbuckled Farean’s harness. If I 
could reveal Farean’s secret to anyone it would be Esgeril. Through 
her family history, she would know if something like this had 
happened before. I turned my attention back to Lewon. "I really a m 
okay, but do what you must."  
He nodded and left without another word.  
I went the opposite direction.  
Florian and her crew sat outside the girl’s barracks as usual. She 
tried to block my path as I approached, but I dug my heel into her 
foot. I wasn’t stro ng enough to hurt her, but it surprised her enough 
to create the opening I needed to push past her into the building.  
Shortly after I got back to my room, Esgeril knocked on the door. 
"How did it go? I want all the juicy details." She smiled and collapsed 
on the straw mattress by my window.  
"Well, I have a lot to learn," I said. "Farean is a natural in the air. 
Good enough that I’m holding her back. But Lewon gave me some 
good bruises today."  
She laughed. "I don’t know why we need to learn how to wield the 
blade. They don’t do any good from dragon -back. I’m glad Baran’s 
red, so I can use the crossbow dad trained me on. Did you see the 
healer? She’ll have an ointment to help with the bruising."  
Royal Dragoneer   132 
 "Actually, I have a question for you. What you know about healing  
magic?"  
"Healing magic?" She shook her head. "Don’t waste your time 
worrying about that. Nobody has any magic worth talking about."  
I frowned. "What about what Baran told Farean? About dragons 
channeling magic and focusing our powers?"  
"I broke my arm the  day after the hatching." She lifted her left arm 
and flexed it, then dropped it back to her side. "The cast came off 
just before we left for here. Maybe Dragoneers heal a few days 
quicker than normal folks. Could be dragon magic, or just that we’re 
mostly  tough people."  
I looked away, wondering what to say. How did you bring up 
magic when someone didn’t believe in it?  
"So, by the look on your face, I’d guess something happened?" she 
said. "Tell me."  
"I hit my head my head pretty hard during training. Hard enough 
to worry Lewon, so he cut our session short. He’s going to ask you to 
keep an eye on me later, just so you know. Anyway, on the way back 
to the healer, Farean got worried. Then she said that thing about 
magic that Baran told her and insisted she cou ld heal me. Started 
spouting nonsense about a dragon king." I turned my head and 
parted my hair. "I couldn’t see what was going on, but it burned and 
then it stopped throbbing and felt better." I turned back to an open -
mouthed Esgeril. "She said I had stro ng magic. But I’ve never 
noticed anything like that before."  
Esgeril sat there gaping at me, at a complete loss for words.  
"Please don’t tell anyone," I begged. "I’m enough of a freak here 
already."  
Her expression softened. "You’re not a freak. You just do n’t know 
anything." She broke into a smile. "At all. About anything. And I’ve 
never heard of dragon magic working like that. But I’ll have a chat 
with Baran and see what he says, about both you and Farean. We 
could even look in the camp archives and see if  they mention 
anything similar. But, yeah, I wouldn’t bring up dragon magic with 
133  Ash Rober ts 
 anyone until we know more or could prove something. Maybe your 
injury wasn’t as bad as you thought it was. You can’t see the back of 
your own head, you know?"  
"I know," I gave  her a friendly shove, and she rolled backward and 
off the bed with wild exaggerated motions, as if I had the strength to 
bowl her over. "See, I know that much," I insisted. "Actually, I know 
plenty. Just not anything useful." I laughed, and she let out on e of her 
signature snorts. "Now help me learn something useful so I can get 
out of my punishment sooner."  

 
 
 
I brought my sword up to block the blow just inches from my 
head. The force knocked me backwards and I dropped to a knee. 
"Hold," I called. I huffed as I supported my weight on the pommel 
of the practice blade. After several months of training now, I was 
getting better, but Lewon still usually bested me.  
"Goblins won’t give you a chance to catch your brea th," he said. 
He held out his hand, and I used it to pull myself up.  
"I know, but you will." I smiled, sheathing my blade. I wandered 
over to a stream near where it fed into the lake and scooped some 
cool water in my hands, washing away the worst of the di rt and sweat 
that caked my face.  
Looking up, a saw a glint of red, under the shade of a nearby tree. 
I’d only seen it once, but Lewon made enough of an impression 
about its danger that I’d always recognize firerock at a glance now.  
"Tell him". Farean’s voice distracted me as it echoed in my head as 
she glided lazily in the air currents above.  
"What does she want you to tell me?" Lewon prodded.  
I turned to see him wading waist high in the lake with a sharpened 
stick aimed at the surface. He kept his eyes glued on the fish darting 
between his legs, not bothering to look up when he asked the 
question.  
"You know, that gets a bit old. What’s the point of having secret 
telepathic conversations with my dragon if Calen just repeats them to 
you," I teased.  
He laug hed. "When dragons are involved, there is no privacy. So, 
you might as well tell me." He moved toward me in the water, his we 
shirt and pants clinging to his body in a very distracting way.  
Royal Dragoneer   136 
 He wasn’t going to give up, it seemed. I wondered if that meant he  
had some inkling already. "Well," I said, hesitant but determined, "I 
noticed that a lot of the male and female Dragoneers have paired off. 
Florian is already spreading rumors about us based on our training 
sessions. I was wondering if there was anyone yo u…" My voice 
trailed off as I got closer to asking the question.  
He smiled. The same sly little grin that he had shown me so many 
times in the past few weeks. And that grin alone fueled my hope. But 
he didn’t say anything. He just stared at me, wading clos er to me on 
the shoreline and waiting for me to go on.  
So, I did. "I’m only asking because. Well, because. I like you. And 
I can’t ignore that anymore. I like you. It scares me. But I need to 
know if you feel the same way." I let out a long unsteady breath . 
There. I’d said it. The flag was in his possession now.  
He walked right up and stood over me —still with that same 
cheeky grin and only the sound of water dripping off of him. His 
spear floated in the lake behind him, forgotten. The seconds ticked 
by as w e stood like that, close but not touching, my head just below 
his chin line so I could see the pulse jumping in his neck. It seemed 
to be jumping very quickly. I knew mine sure was. I was hoping he 
would kiss me, but instead he raised his hand, brushing my  sweaty 
hair from my cheek.  
"Training’s not the place for this," he said gently "It wouldn’t be 
right. I’m your teacher."  
I felt like the wind had been knocked out of me. I blinked, trying 
to understand.  
"That’s enough of a break. Back to training." He hel d out his 
hand. I felt like collapsing to the ground, screaming in frustration, 
and going off to hide all at once. Instead, I assumed the stance he 
had shown me. He attacked and I let my frustration fueled my 
moves. I deflected a series of thrusts, holding  my own for much 
longer than I had previously.  
Finally, he passed my guard and knocked me to the ground. I 
rolled and used the momentum to lift me back to my feet. This time I 
137  Ash Rober ts 
 went on the attack. Lewon blinked but raised his sword to block. He 
let me try s everal more times, but I never came close to landing a 
blow.  
He switched back to offense, landing several more touches while I 
managed to stay on my feet. He feinted, and while I was distracted by 
his sword he swept my knees with his leg. I landed on my ba ck and 
he pressed the blunted point of his weapon against my chest.  
He withdrew the point, sheathing the sword and extending his 
hand instead. Kalia," he said my name softly, like a caress. "Get 
cleaned up and meet me at the stables an hour before the dinn er 
bell."  
I gulped twice before I was able to ask hopefully, "You mean for a 
date?"  
Again, he only responded with a smile. That grin made my heart 
flutter and infuriated me at the same time. Why couldn’t he just give 
me a straight answer for once?  
He walke d past me, water cascading off his body, and went to put 
our practice equipment away.  
I clambered onto Farean’s back, but then remember something. 
"I’m still under my punishment," I reminded him. "I can’t leave the 
camp."  
He dismissed my concern with a wav e of his hand, not bothering 
to look up from his work. "I already cleared it with Authand. Don’t 
worry."  
He had cleared it with Authand? That meant he’d planned 
something for us before I’d even broached the question. My heart 
leapt just as Farean leapt int o the sky.  
"I told you to ask him, "she said. " You humans  make mating  way too 
complicated. " 
She wasn’t wrong.  
Back at the stables, I made record time removing her saddle, 
giving it only the most cursory of cleanings before putting it away. I 
found Esgeril in the central Pavilion. "Come on, I need your help." I 
Royal Dragoneer   138 
 grabbed her arm without stopping and pulled her to her feet, nearly 
over balancing her.  
"What’s the matter?"  
"Nothing, for a change.  But I do have a date." I doubled our pace 
until we were just short of a run. "And I have no clue what to wear. 
Help me go through my trunk from home. I’m finally going to have a 
chance to wear a dress again."  
I barely noticed Esgeril shut the door behind her when we entered 
my room. I ran straight for the trunk, tossing the lid open with 
enough force to rock it. I started pulling garments out.  
"Do you think I should go with the blue dress to match Farean’s 
scales or the green to match Calen?" I held the tw o up, so she could 
compare.  
"Neither." Esgeril shook her head. "Goblins have been spotted in 
the woods, and Colonel Authand has grounded everyone. No one is 
allowed leave camp."  
"No, that can’t be right. Lewon said he’d cleared it."  
"I don’t know what " Lewon" told you, but the Colonel was 
adamant. You can’t leave."  
I crossed the small room with two quick steps and stood over her. 
"Are you making this up? Why are you ruining this? Are you 
jealous?" I demanded.  
"Jealous?" She scoffed, placing her hands on her  hips and staring 
defiantly at me. "Why would I make up a lie? It’s easy enough to 
check. Just go ask the Colonel."  
"I don’t have time for that. And you know the Colonel hates me. 
He’d probably ground me no matter what, just on principle." I 
turned away fr om her, almost in tears. "Why can’t you just be happy 
for me? Finally, somebody accepts me for who I really am, and I get 
to do something for myself. Since the hatching, every decision has 
been about Farean."  
"Oh, poor you," she said sarcastically. "Poor p retty princess born 
with a golden spoon in her mouth. Now you finally find out what it 
means to live for someone other than yourself, and you run into the 
139  Ash Rober ts 
 arms of the first boy who smirks at you. Your independence is just 
something you pretend to have unti l someone comes along to take 
care of you."  
That struck a little too close to home. I narrowed my eyes as I 
exhaled out my nose. I leaned forward, close enough that my breath 
toyed with a stray lock that lay across her forehead. "Get out of my 
room," I his sed. 
Esgeril held her ground as we glared at each other. She 
sidestepped around me and grabbed the door knob. Opening it, she 
spoke in a low voice. "Lewon is up to something. You can’t trust 
him. Don’t say that I didn’t warn you." Then she was gone, leavin g 
me to my own thoughts.  
"Kalia"," what’s  wrong?  "Farean called from the stables, sensing my 
distress.  
"Be quiet. I’m fine." I waved her off even though she couldn’t see 
me. 
I looked down at the two dresses and grabbed the green one. Etlin 
had always said green suited me.  
Thinking of him didn’t bring the twinge of pain it once had. In 
fact, it had been weeks since he’d even crossed my mind. I’d been so 
devastated when he left me. Was Esgeril right about my 
independence? Was it just something I put on like a  pretty dress to 
attract someone new to take care of me? No, that wasn’t fair. I had 
grown leaps and bounds since I’d come to camp. I did everything for 
myself and I was a good Dragoneer. Being independent didn’t mean 
you couldn’t have friends or boyfriend s. You could still want and 
have those relationships. You just didn’t need them desperately or 
lose yourself in them. But would I lose myself in Lewon? Well, there 
was only one way to find out.  

 
 
 
I brushed my hands through my pony tail as I walked to the 
stables. I had hoped Esgeril would braid my hair for me, but I would 
have to make do with what I had done looking into the barrack’s 
washroom mirror. If I missed even one strand, it whipped painfully 
in my face  when I flew. It was probably why many of the female 
riders cut their hair short like boys.  
At this late hour, the stables were deserted. The other Dragoneers 
had finished their classes for the day and mealtime for the dragons 
started earlier than ours. A few slumbered in their berths. Farean 
shouldn’t be eating; she knew we would be flying tonight, but she 
was absent. I opened my storage locker retrieve Farean’s harness 
from its storage trunk before calling her back.  
"You won’t need that." I jumped at the sound of Lewon’s voice. I 
turned around, my heart pounding in my chest.  
"I thought we were flying somewhere," I said, trying not to show 
my disappointment. Was this all just a set -up again?  
He saw my discomfort and shook his head. "Farean gets a break 
tonight. We’ll ride together on Calen. You’ll just have to hook onto 
me." He gave a little half turn and pointed to a D -ring at the small of 
his back that I hadn’t noticed before.  
I followed him to Calen’s stable and stood back as Lewon 
harnessed his dragon and climbed onto its back. Once secure, he held 
out his hand to me.  
I hesitated. I’d been training for three months, but I’d never 
touched a dragon who wasn’t Farean, let alone ridden one.  
Lewon shook his arm, breaking me from my thoughts.  
Royal Dragoneer   142 
 I grabbed his ha nd and climbed on. The buckles snapped into 
place easily, pulling me very snuggly into Lewon’s back. Calen took 
two steps, and we were airborne.  
One of the first things I noticed was that we were not flying in the 
direction of the village where Esgeril’s a unt owned her shop. I 
considered bringing that up, but it was hard to talk on a dragon. And 
I didn’t want him to think I didn’t trust him.  
The wind buffeted me, pushing me back and forth. A gust 
knocked my grip loose and my buckles tensed against Lewon’s b ack 
pulling him askew as well.  
I grabbed at his shoulders, making it more difficult for him to hold 
onto the harness.  
He grasped Calen’s neck ridge and pulled himself forward in the 
saddle.  
I pried my fingers around the saddle’s edge and pulled myself back  
as well.  
"Hold on," he shouted over his shoulder.  
"I’m trying."  
"No." The wind made it difficult to hear, but there was no 
mistaking his growl of frustration. "Hold on to " me". I don’t want 
you pulling me back again."  
"Oh." The sound was lost in the wind as I tried to decide where to 
put my hands.  
Still holding on to the dragon’s neck with one arm, Lewon reached 
around and yanked my hands to his chest. I took the hint and 
wrapped my arms around his body. Calen rode an air current higher, 
and I instinctivel y pressed myself closer to Lewon. He was so warm. 
And I could feel the beating of his heart, his chest expanding and 
contracting with each breath. The heat he radiated was helping 
protect me against the chill of the air flowing past. This was much 
more int imate than I’d ever been with Etlin. I felt flush and was 
grateful for the fact that Lewon couldn’t see my reaction, or my face.  
I recalled my conversation with Esgeril on how casually 
Dragoneers viewed romantic relationships, especially those from the 
143  Ash Rober ts 
 West like where Lewon was from. That was enough to jolt me back 
to reality, and I pulled away from him a little but kept my arms 
around his chest with the lightest of grips.  
We rode in silence until white smoke appeared on the horizon. We 
made our way towards  it, and an assortment of stone and wood 
buildings came into view surrounded by a crude stone wall. Judging 
by its size and location, I guessed this was Suzu, Darneta’s second 
largest city.  
We had traveled there once when I was a child. My father took a 
comprehensive yearlong tour of the kingdom every five years of his 
rule. It helped the outlands feel connected to their king and showed 
that he cared about their lives.  
The dragon pavilion here was not so grand as it had been at 
Esgeril’s village. Further fr om the training grounds, I guessed it didn’t 
receive as much dragon traffic as the smaller town. We landed and 
deposited our harnesses in a locker before I excused myself in search 
of a mirror to fix my hair before anyone noticed how messy it had 
come.  
When I returned from the pavilion’s washroom, I found Lewon 
leaning against a pillar at the exit. He saw me and straightened, 
holding his left arm out. I took it awkwardly. Esgeril had taken to my 
righthandedness gracefully and stood on the other side to 
accommodate me. Why was I comparing Lewon to her? I took 
Lewon’s arm with more vigor than I intended, forcing the strange 
thoughts away. He couldn’t help it if he was used to most people 
being left -handed.  
Lewon led me to a dim public house with sparse candles  providing 
the only illumination. Despite the crude outward appearance, the 
owner was well dressed and led us to our table without a word. I 
perused the menu, which further showed the establishment to be 
more upscale than the average tavern, and ordered.  
Lewon spoke after the owner was out of earshot. "I know this 
isn’t as posh as the capital or the castle, but I figured you would enjoy 
a change from the camp’s cafeteria."  
Royal Dragoneer   144 
 Without the stress of training or traveling across Goblin -infested 
roads, we fell int o an easy conversation. I thought I had gotten to 
know Lewon pretty well, but I hadn’t even scratched the surface. I 
barely noticed my meal, tasty but forgettable, as the conversation 
progressed. I wished we could stay there forever.  
But then two pale -skinned men sidled up to our booth and slid 
onto the benches next to us. I was so startled, I didn’t know what to 
say. The tavern wasn’t full. There were other places to sit. And I 
hadn’t seen many, but their black hair and red eyes told me they were 
Nightbloo ds. The one next to me opened his mouth to speak, 
providing further proof with a flash of his teeth, sharpened to fanged 
points.  
"Where’s our money, Lewon?" he said, staring at me hungrily. 
"Roland doesn’t like it when his runecube players don’t pay."  
"Runecubes?" I squeaked. "Those are illegal."  
The Nightblood elbowed me. "Still, you’re boyfriend here has a 
weakness for them. He owes the boss a stoneweight." He grinned, 
showing his fangs again.  
It would take a Dragoneer four years to earn that much.  
"Lewon, how could you lose so much money?" I asked.  
"Because Roland cheats." He banged his fist on the table.  
With a Nightblood’s fabled reflexes, the one next to me grabbed 
Lewon’s hand. "Careful, boy. Roland has been patient with you till 
now, but he won’t  wait any longer. Don’t make this harder on 
yourself."  
"I have his money, Bior," Lewon said.  
"You do?" The Nightblood and I said in unison.  
"Yes. Well, the next best thing." He pointed at me. "Boys, meet 
Princess Kalia of Darneta."  
Both the Nightbloods sta red at me as I stared at Lewon. This 
couldn’t be happening. He wouldn’t do this. Who would do this?  
"I don’t have any more money than he does," I told the 
Nightblood called Bior.  
145  Ash Rober ts 
 In response, he reached out and grabbed my wrist, holding it 
tightly enough t o elicit a yelp. "No, but your father does."  
Realization of what he planned hit me, and I fought against his 
grasp.  
"Are we good, Bior?" Lewon asked, without looking at me.  
Bior stood, pulling me with him. "Yes, this will be sufficient to 
relieve your debt s. Should Roland expect you at the runecube table 
next weekend?"  
Lewon pushed his way past Bior’s companion. "Of course. It will 
be nice to see Roland owing me money for a change."  
"Lewon," I hissed. "Don’t do this."  
"It’s not personal, Kalia." Lewon said,  though I noticed wouldn’t 
look me in the eye. "It’s just business."  
And then he turned and left the restaurant without looking back.  

 
 
 
The unnamed Nightblood took my left arm and the two leeches 
dragged me towa rds the exit. I tried to search for the proprietor, but 
he was conspicuously absent.  
Outside, a light mist coated everything, and a wolf cowered under 
a nearby tree, wrapped in silver chains. It wasn’t just any wolf, 
judging by the size. A wolf that big ha d to be a wolf -shifter.  
The Nightbloods led me to the animal and pushed me over its 
back. They untied the end of the chain from the tree and wrapped it 
around my wrists. Bior prodded the poor creature and it walked into 
the woods on some unseen trail, the Nightbloods flanking us on each 
side. 
With each step the wolf -shifter took, the chains tugged at my 
wrists. Within a mile, the skin had been rubbed raw and my blood 
matted the animal’s fur. But I barely felt the pain. It was nothing 
compared to how badly m y heart hurt. I had trusted Lewon. I had 
actually thought he liked me. How could I have been such a fool 
again? First there had been Etlin, who had at least dumped me, 
instead of selling me to pay his debts. And now this. Did I have 
absolutely no sense of who people really were? Was I that blind and 
naive? Maybe Esgeril was right, and I was just a person who wanted 
someone else to take care of me. Well, there was no one to take care 
of me now. I was going to have to get out of this on my own. Which 
wouldn’t  be easy chained to the back of a wolf with only a view of 
the ground.  
"You should let me go know." I said with more bravery than I felt, 
craning my neck to see Bior. "It will go poorly for you otherwise,"  
Royal Dragoneer   148 
 "Oh, yeah?  Why is that?" Bior laughed. "Your father won’t risk 
you getting hurt. He will pay the ransom."  
I wasn’t as sure of that as he was, but admitting it wouldn’t help 
my cause. I knew Farean could hear me from a distance. When the 
Goblins had ambushed Lewon an d I on the road back to the swine 
farm, she’d flown to my rescue. But that had only been a few miles 
distance. Suzu was at least twenty miles from camp. Maybe more. 
"Farean,  I need you." I called earnestly in my head. " I’m in trouble.  Come  
help me. "Farean  was the one creature in this world I knew I could 
trust without fail. Not because I needed her, but because we needed 
each other. We had that unbreakable bond the Dragoneeers were 
always going on about.  
"You do know I’m a Dragoneer, right?" I told my capt ors. "My 
dragon will find me."  
"Oh, good," Bior said cheerily. The other one wasn’t much of a 
talker, it seemed. "Roland always has use for more dragons."  
"She wouldn’t follow him, because I won’t."  
"Roland will have no reason to keep you after the ransom is paid. 
He’ll find your dragon a rider more amenable to our cause."  
"That’s not possible," I reminded him "A dragon is bonded for 
life." 
"Is that what the Dragoneers told you?" He gave a full belly laugh. 
"You’re more naive than I thought, if you believe that."  
"What are you talking about?" I cried. "Can the dragon bond be 
broken?"  
"There is a witch, Ascatie," Bior said. "She lives in the North 
where wild dragons still roam. It is said she can perform the rite. This 
is what will be done to you and your dra gon if you call it here to 
rescue you."  
"No," I whispered. Meanwhile I was frantically telling Farean in 
my head. " Farean, " "listen to me." "Don’t  come. It isn’t safe for you. Stay 
away.  That’s  an order. " 
149  Ash Rober ts 
 I felt —something —this time. A sensation just on th e cusp of my 
awareness. Anger. No, fear and rage. Farean was getting closer. She 
was coming after me.  
In a panic, I squirmed against my bonds, grinding my injured 
wrists into the wolf’s shoulder.  
It growled, low in its throat, the vibration breaking the st ill of the 
night.  
"Quiet, Meril," Bior hissed at it. "Roland won’t release your pups 
if you get us caught."  
Meril whimpered and then became quiet. She picked up her pace, 
no doubt eager to be relieved of her load and returned to her family. 
The two Nightbl oods kept up easily, appearing for all the world as if 
the wolf’s trot was slowing them down. Maybe my parents would pay 
the ransom that Roland would demand. I had no idea.  
But I had to keep Farean away. Or at least warn her what to 
expect and not to come flying into a trap. " Farean ", I called again. 
"They know you’re  coming.  It’s a trap." "Be on guard.  Think  before you act." I 
kept trying to contact her as we crossed mile after nameless mile.  
The Nightbloods seemed agitated by our slow progress and 
conferr ed between themselves as the moons rose in the sky. "This is 
taking too long," Bior told his companion. "The wolf is weary, and 
the girl is heavy. I can move faster on my own and will go on ahead 
to tell Roland we have a prize." He tugged at the chain for good 
measure, and Meril and I both cried out in pain. Then, faster than I 
could blink, he disappeared into the night. The other Nightblood led 
the way in silence. He had not said a word since he’d sat down next 
to that traitorous Lewon, hours before.  
The d ragon moon set and then Kingsmoon, leaving just the red 
blood moon illuminating the path. I wasn’t superstitious but, given 
how the night was going, I shivered at the ill omen a lone blood 
moon conveyed.  
Despite the pain in my arms and back, my exhaustion eventually 
overtook me. I woke to see dawn peaking over the horizon as my 
Nightblood captor unwound my chains and pulled me from the back 
Royal Dragoneer   150 
 of Meril. A small stone home sat alone in the woods, the dawn -facing 
windows shut tight. No smoke rose from the chimne y. At first, I 
thought that meant the building was unoccupied, but then I realized 
that Nightbloods needed no fire for warmth or food.  
Bior opened the door at our arrival and waved us in, the silent 
Nightblood dragging me by my arm and Meril by her chains.  The 
door shut loudly behind us, and I turned to see him turn several large 
bolts as big around as my arm. A third Nightblood, portly by their 
standards, sat at an oak table counting stacks of money.  
"Did my father pay the ransom?" I asked hopefully. Meanw hile, 
Bior stuffed Meril into a cage that looked much too small for her. 
The other one pushed me roughly into a chair and wrapped me in a 
rope almost faster than I could see.  
"Why, my dear," replied the Nightblood who must be Roland, 
"this is just what my runecube clubs brought in last night. It’s not a 
tenth of what I will demand from your father." The Nightblood 
Change made it difficult to tell, but his head seemed not quite right 
and his skin had a greyer tone than the alabaster of his companions.  
"You’r e a Goblin," I gasped in realization.  
"I’m a Nightblood!" He brought his fist down on the table, 
cracking the wood in half. The gold and silver coins scattered across 
the room. A silver piece rolled into Meril’s cage. She jumped when it 
touched her, sending her into the bars, cowering and cringing away 
from it.  
"Never mention what a Nightblood was before," Roland said, 
coming around the table and grabbing me by the chin with his cold 
hand. "It is the rudest possible insult to our kind, and I’ve killed  
others for much less." He let go of my chin but kept his face close to 
mine. "Just be thankful you are worth so much, or you’d already be 
dead." His breath smelled of blood, warm and metallic. "Bior, pick 
up this mess." He waved his hand at the money on t he floor. "The 
sun is up, and I must go and rest."  
He left through a door in the back, though I got no details of the 
room or space beyond. It was too dark.  
151  Ash Rober ts 
 Bior and the other Nightblood, whose name I still didn’t know, 
stooped down and started picking up the money. The nameless one 
reached for the coin in Meril’s cage, and she snapped at him, earning 
her cage an angry kick. The Nightblood’s strength sent it rolling. She 
shrieked as she tumbled with it, and then lay there whimpering, but 
not moving, when it  stopped.  
These Nightbloods had no mercy. What would they do to Farean 
if she came? What would they do to me if she didn’t?  
Bior and his companion finished putting the scattered money back 
on the table. When they were done, the silent one cocked his head 
and went to the small window. He peered through it and grabbed a 
crossbow and some bolts hanging from a hook on the wall. He went 
back to the window, crouching down.  
Bior followed suit, grabbing another weapon from the wall. He 
took a position at a slit on the other side of the door.  
"Who is out there?" I asked them. Was it my father’s men or my 
dragon? " Farean,  if you’re  here, it’s a trap. The house is full of Nightbloods,  
and they have crossbows.  Be careful. " 
"Be quiet!" Bior barked.  
I obeyed, straining to  sense Farean’s presence or her thoughts, but 
I got nothing.  
Bior’s companion took aim with his bow and fired.  
"Careful," Bior warned him. "We don’t know how many there. 
Conserve our ammunition. Wait until you can see them clearly."  
"I thaw moothement," th e other Nightblood lisped.  
That was why he hadn’t spoken. I had heard of such things before, 
stories the maids told each other at night. In the human kingdom of 
Facal, they cut out the tongues of their remedial criminals, those who 
had committed an offense  not quite worthy of the death penalty. And 
when Nightbloods Changed, their bodies gained the ability to 
regenerate, even parts that had previously been removed. It was said 
the blood they drank did that. But that regeneration could take some 
time. This Ni ghtblood must be so young his tongue hadn’t yet 
completely grown back.  
Royal Dragoneer   152 
 Bior focused on the slit before him, attempting to find what had 
roused the other’s attention. I couldn’t see what they were seeing, but 
they both suddenly started shooting frantically,  barely taking the time 
to aim before firing.  
I heard a sound, maybe a growl or the beating of wings.  
Bior dropped his crossbow and retreated to the room where 
Roland had retired.  
The other Nightblood kept firing.  
Mortar dust and crumbled stone started rai ning down from the 
ceiling, and I ducked under Roland’s money table for protection.  
A hole opened up in the roof as more stone and debris came 
crashing down.  
Farean snaked her head through the hole and grabbed the lisping 
Nightblood in her jaws, shaking hi m back and forth before releasing 
him into the far wall.  
He slumped to the floor and didn’t move.  
"I’m here", Farean said. " And that man tasted  nasty. " 
 
 
 
"Farean!"  I cried, scanning as much of her as I could through the 
hole in the ceiling. I didn’t see any bolts sticking out of her hide. She 
was safe. I was safe.  
"Of course,  you’re  safe." Farean said, so confident in herself" . I would  
never let anyone  harm you. Oh, and I brought  the boss man." 
Colonel Authand entered the home through the door, rather than 
the dragon -sized hole in roof. He looked me over with a faint nod of 
his head, assessing the battle damage nonchalantly as if he’d done it a 
thousand times before.  Which he probably had.  
He seemed content that I was safe and rushed for the rear door, 
his short sword drawn in front of him. He threw it open, revealing a 
dark room with an open door on its back wall, open to the dim 
woods beyond. He searched the now emp ty room and came back 
into the main one just as two other Dragoneers came in the front 
door.  
"The outside is secure, sir," one of them said. Three vertical bars 
under his Dragon pin indicated he was in his third and final year of 
training. His sandy brown hair was trimmed close to his head, and his 
demeanor seemed closer to that of my father’s guards than what I 
was used to in the Dragoneers.  
"Well, they escaped out the back," Authand said. "Search again; 
they must have a secret passage somewhere. Farean, h ave a fly 
around and see if you notice anything from the air."  
"Yes, sir. "My dragon said like an obedient soldier, as she flapped 
her wings and took off from the roof, sending dust billowing down 
into the room.  
Royal Dragoneer   154 
 When the air had cleared, Authand sheathed his sword and pulled 
a small dagger from his belt. The other two Dragoneers back outside 
and headed in different directions. Authand cut through the ropes 
that bound me. I rubbed my bleeding wrists, wincing at the raw flesh.  
I knelt next to Meril’s cage. " We need to let her out. She is a 
prisoner here too."  
"She’s a Wolf -shifter, girl. And a badly treated one at that. Be 
careful she doesn’t bite the hand that feeds her."  
I ignored his warning, and opened the door to her cage, but Meril 
cringed at the back. I crawled halfway in. "It’s okay, we’re going to 
help you." I took another crawling move forward, and she snapped at 
me. I jumped back.  
"If you bite her, I’ll bite you, "I heard Farean say. But she wasn’t 
talking to me. She was talking to Meril, who cocked  her head and 
looked up through the hole in the roof, trembling.  
I use the distraction to lunge forward and pull the chain off her. 
Her demeanor changed immediately. She took a step towards me, but 
it did not seem threatening. I backed out of the cage, and  she 
followed me into the room. Once clear, she began to shift.  
Her snout pulled into her face and her legs straightened and 
lengthened. Fur dissolved into golden brown skin. Within moments, 
she returned to the form of a woman around thirty and attempted t o 
cover her nakedness with her arms.  
Authand went into the back room and returned with breaches and 
a coat that were both several sizes too large for her. He tossed them 
to her and turned away. She slipped into the pants, but they were so 
large that she co uld not keep them up. I gave her a length of the rope 
that had bound me, and she cinched it around her waist, then slid on 
the coat.  
She looked lost in it, but she tapped on the Colonel’s shoulder. 
"Thank you," she said when he turned. She eyed the corpse of the 
lisping Nightblood lying against the wall and turned her attention to 
me. "And thank you. They’ve kept me in wolf form for months, 
155  Ash Rober ts 
 doing their bidding. But I must find them. They still have my pups 
hidden somewhere. I have to find them."  
Authand nod ded. "The other two Dragoneers will stay behind and 
help you."  
She shook her head. "I appreciate the offer, but I can cover more 
ground on my own. And the Nightbloods will stay hidden as long as 
they can see or smell dragons."  
"Well, if there is anything w e can do," Authand said, "you can find 
us at Tulta to the East."  
"I will remember both of you," she said, bowing and turning 
toward the door, her nose sniffing the air. And then she was gone, 
springing into the woods like she was still in wolf form.  
"I didn’t find the other stinky  men", Farean said, sticking her huge head 
in the doorway.  
"It’s okay," I told her. " You saved my life today.  I’m so proud  of you." 
"And she should have never had to," Authand said, turning to me 
angrily. "What were you thinking, l eaving camp again without 
permission while you were still under punishment from the last time. 
Get on your dragon right now, a dragon you most certainly don’t 
deserve, and go straight back to camp, or I’ll sever the two of you 
myself."  
So, it could be done. Not that I ever wanted it to be. But why had 
everyone lied to me about everything?  
"What are you waiting for?" Authand barked.  
"I don’t have her harness," I sputtered.  
He marched outside, and I followed. He reached into a bag 
strapped to his dragon K orth’s back and retrieved Farean’s harness. 
"Lewon could not find your leathers," he said, handing it to me.  
"Lewon?" I asked, my voice rising. "Lewon knows exactly where 
my leathers are. They’re with his at the Pavilion in Suzu. Right where 
he left me." M y fists clenched, and Farean butted me with her snout, 
letting out a low growl.  
"Don’t try to blame this on him. He’s been at the camp since you 
disappeared," Authand said, reaching into a pouch on Korth’s side 
Royal Dragoneer   156 
 and pulling out a pair of leathers I recogniz ed as Esgeril’s. They 
wouldn’t fit, but they’d be close enough to get me home.  
I put them on, Farean fawning over me and making it harder. Her 
thoughts were an incoherent jumble. Most strongly, she seemed 
happy that I was safe, angry that I’d been captured , and sad that I’d 
abandoned her. This last one shocked me. " I didn’t  abandon  you. "I 
assured her" . I thought  I was going on a date. But it was a trap. Lewon  lied 
and turned  me over to the stinky  men. And now he’s back at camp pretending  he 
had nothing  to do with it." 
"Bad Lewon,  "she said. " I warned  you he doesn’t  smell right." 
"I know.  I should  have listened  to you. I’m sorry. "I stroked her snout 
with one hand, using her for balance as I pulled the leggings on, 
awkwardly, over my dress, then attached mys elf to the harness. If it 
was my word against Lewon’s concerning what had happened, who 
would people believe? It looked like Authand already believed 
Lewon. That wasn’t a good sign.  
Even now, Authand was standing next to Korth, his arms crossed 
and his foo t tapping impatiently. "You will follow me back," he said. 
"If you deviate from our flight path at all, Korth will force you to the 
ground and you will walk back to the camp. Is that clear?"  
I nodded and gulped.  
He mounted Korth, and I mounted Farean, hook ing in and 
following them into the sky. There was no conversation on the flight 
back.  
The sun reached its zenith as we landed. My stomach gurgled as 
the sounds and smells of the noon meal wafted from the mess hall. I 
hadn’t eaten for a long time and looked  longingly in that direction; 
but Authand pointed at me with his hook and said, "My office. 
Now."  
I made my best time ever removing Farean’s harness and trotted 
after him. Walking was awkward with my gown bunched up under 
the leggings. Every time I fell be hind, he stopped and glared until I 
caught up. At his office, the aide held the door open. As soon as I 
passed through, he left, closing the door behind us.  
157  Ash Rober ts 
 I’d been warned to avoid Authand’s wrath, but I seemed incapable 
of doing so. In fact, I appeared t o be a wrath -magnet. The Colonel 
waited until I entered his office and then slammed the door with 
enough force to shake the room.  
"What were you thinking?" He thundered, pacing the room in 
front of me. "I’ve seen a lot of new Dragoneers make very stupid an d 
dangerous mistakes, but this has got to take the cake. What did you 
do to attract the attention of someone as dangerous as Roland? 
You’re not playing runecubes, are you?"  
"No," I blurted. Without meaning to, I spread my arms wide, 
nearly sending my hand into his chest. "It was Lewon. He tricked 
me." 
"He tricked you into running off by yourself?"  
"He took me to Suzu for dinner. He said we had your 
permission."  
"Do you think I’m stupid?" That terrible claw thunked into the 
desk as he passed it. "Nobody had permission to leave until we were 
forced to go off on a wild dragon -chase looking for you. Lewon led 
the search until we found Farean flying by herself. Do you have any 
idea how dangerous these woods are for a lost young dragon right 
now?"  
"But—I—" I wante d to protest that Lewon had lied to him —that 
he’d sold me off without a thought for my well -being. But the words 
just wouldn’t come. I’d struggled all night with the fact that I’d 
poured my heart out to Lewon, and he used that very fact in a plan to 
barter  me for his illegal debts. Then he’d pretended to look for me —
to be the caring hero who’d lost the girl he was falling for. That was a 
level of deviousness that both scared and startled me. Lewon would 
not go down without a fight. If I accused him, I might  very well lose 
that battle. Badly. I was not anyone’s favorite at training camp, and 
he clearly was. Obviously, I would have to play this differently, like 
one of my father’s diplomatic negotiations. I was the little kingdom 
with no army. That meant I had  to bide my time and find something 
to bargain with.  
Royal Dragoneer   158 
 So, I hung my head as Authand continued his tirade, but I was no 
longer listening. I was pondering a plan —a way to get my revenge on 
Lewon that he would never see coming. I would show Authand, and 
Floria n, and Esgeril, and all the other Dragoneers what I was really 
made of. I was tired of having one foot in princess world, and one in 
Dragoneer world. If I wanted this life, I was going to have to grab it 
for myself. No one was going to hand it to me.  
"This  is your last chance, Kalia." Authand said, winding down. "If 
you’re caught leaving this camp again without permission, it will be 
the Dragon Caves for you."  
I gulped. The threat had more weight now. I’d only known it was 
a prison before. But from my class es I’d learned the guards were only 
there to prevent the criminals from escaping. There were no guards 
or rules inside the Caves.  
"You should also be aware that Roland never releases his 
hostages," Authand added. "He collects the ransom and kills them. 
And us rescuing you is going to be very bad for his reputation. His 
spies will be on the lookout for you. If you’re ever allowed to l eave 
camp grounds again, which I highly doubt, your life will be in 
constant danger. You will never be safe again because of your 
foolishness last night. Now, leave my sight."  
I didn’t make him repeat himself. The anteroom was still empty of 
the Colonel’s aide and I let myself out. I made my way towards the 
cafeteria. Service would have ended by now, but there might still be 
some food out.  
As I walked down the path, I saw Lewon in the distance, standing 
outside with Florian and her usual crew, waiting for m e, their eyes 
full of hate and malic e. 
 
 
 
I stopped in my tracks, evaluating the situation.  
If I turned and ran, they’d come after my like Nightbloods after a 
bleeding man.  
If I went forward, I’d have to say or do something to get past 
them.  
Either option was bad, but I stepped forward, facing them head -
on. 
I saw the surprise in their eyes when I kept coming. Good. Let 
them be the ones surprised for a change.  
As I got close to the group, they parted, glaring a t me. Lewon was 
there, right on the path. I had to brush his arm to get past and as I 
did I said, "Can’t get rid of me that easily."  
He took a step back, bumping into Florian behind him. I could see 
it in his eyes. He’d never expected me to make it back al ive. And on 
the off chance I did, he’d counted on me crying and accusing him. If 
I’d made a fool of myself, no one would have believed a word I said, 
and he’d have looked that much better for it.  
"And Roland still wants his debt paid," I whispered so no on e else 
could hear. "He’ll be coming for you." I had no idea if that were true, 
but I hoped it was.  
"What’s all the whispering about?" Someone near the rear of the 
pack demanded. "We all want to know what you did this time, 
Princess." He wasn’t using my tit le to be polite.  
"I’ll tell you what she did," Lewon said, smirking at me. "During 
our sword practice, she told me she loved me. Completely out of the 
Royal Dragoneer   160 
 blue. Like I would have anything to do with a court leech who’s lived 
her entire life off of the sweat of  others. Begged me to run away with 
her. And when I rejected her she ran off by herself, crying like a 
baby, and the Colonel had to go chasing after her."  
The others laughed, and Lewon grinned a sick twisted smile.  
"It’s true," I said, smiling back. "I tho ught I loved him, but then I 
realized how small his dragon is. And you know what they say about 
a man’s dragon matching the size of his…"  
Several people laughed despite themselves, and Lewon whirled 
toward them, glaring.  
Meanwhile, I slipped past and into the cafeteria, but I’d lost my 
appetite.  
I waited a few minutes, watching the crowd outside the door 
disperse, then made my way to the barracks as the sky darkened and 
thunder rolled in the distance. Maybe Lewon would get stuck by 
lightning. " Hey, a girl could hope." 
As I walked down the hall toward my room, I saw Esgeril coming 
out of hers. "Esgeril, I —" 
"I told you not to go." Anger rippled through her body, causing 
her to shake. "I warned you and look what happened."  
"Hey." In the past twenty -four hours,  I had been tricked, sold, 
bound, rescued, scolded, threatened, and verbally attacked. I refused 
to be pushed around any further. "You know what? I thought you 
were my friend. But you’re just like everyone else here." I stepped 
around her and stomped to my  room, slamming the door behind me.  
 
 
 
For weeks after the Lewon incident, I kept my head down and did 
my work. I attended all my classes, accepted my accumulated 
punishments, followed every rule, and tried as hard as I could to stay 
out of Authand’s office. That didn’t mean anyone liked me for it. 
They didn’t. If anything, it made Lewon, Florian, and their gang more 
vicious. They wanted me to mess up. They always had. Even Esgeril 
stayed clear of me, and I d idn’t blame her. Association with me 
would have just put her in the line of fire.  
The only friend I had left was Farean. Stretching the limits of our 
bond had brought us closer together. I trusted her in ways I hadn’t 
realized were possible. She no longer had to seek out my touch. I 
freely gave it. I might never forgive the Orcs or the dragon that killed 
my grandfather. But I no longer blamed Farean for an event that 
happened before she hatched.  
I was determined to keep my nose clean and become the best 
damn Dragoneer anyone had ever seen. I'd qualify for the Dragon 
Run and earn the respect I was due that way.  
The Dragon Moon had eclipsed the Kingsmoon once more. My 
room in the girls' barracks was positioned so they both shone in my 
window. On those nights, I couldn't get any sleep due to their glare. 
It was hard to believe I’d been training for half a year, but the 
monotony was getting to me, and I felt so restless. Technically, going 
for a walk after curfew was against the rules. But I yearned for time 
to m yself. So, I waited a few hours for the rest of the camp to settle 
into slumber and slipped my boots onto my feet.  
Royal Dragoneer   162 
 Glancing out the door, the coast was clear, and I tiptoed down the 
hall. I continued to the stairwell. Two steps down, I heard a door 
open.  
"Who’s there?" Florian’s groggy voice called out. I didn’t wait for 
her discover me. I took the stairs three at a time down to the ground 
floor and slipped quietly out the door. I dove into a shrub and lay on 
the damp earth with juniper scratching at my nec k. 
I waited there, catching my breath, but no one came after me. 
Florian must have just gone back to bed, thankfully.  
A candle illuminated the heads of Florian and a third year who 
proctored our hall. "I heard somebody in the stairs. They must be out 
here, " Florian explained. "I bet it was that ‘I’m better than everyone’ 
princess."  
The proctor shook her head in the dim flame. "Well, there’s 
nobody out here now. Go back to bed. I’ll stand a watch to catch 
them when they try to sneak back in."  
"What if it was  a boy sneaking back out after invading our 
barracks?" Florian stomped her foot, her slipper landing inches from 
my hand. I jerked it back instinctively, and the juniper shook.  
They noticed the motion and turned towards the shrub. I stayed as 
still as poss ible and the proctor turned back to Florian, apparently 
convinced it had been an animal. "I thought you said it was Kalia. 
Don’t waste my time making up stories. Go to bed, Florian, before I 
make you stand the watch by yourself."  
She mumbled something inau dible and shuffled back inside. The 
proctor held the candle up and peered into the darkness before 
returning inside. I waited several more minutes before crawling back 
out into the open.  
I didn't want to risk being seen again, so I made my way to the 
boath ouse. The sentries on night duty rarely ever looked in the 
direction of the lake, because Goblins despised water and did 
everything they could to avoid it. Any eyes searching for threats 
tonight would be pointed the other direction. There was already a 
canoe missing, which was odd. Maybe some other cadet had the 
163  Ash Rober ts 
 same idea as me for an evening of alone time. Well, if they had, it 
wasn't like they'd be in a position to report me.  
I slid a canoe into the water and paddled to the beach where 
Lewon and I had tra ined. I hadn't been back since that night. 
Thoughts of sharpening the practice sword and using it against him 
came to me, but I shook my head to clear my mind and set off into 
the woods.  
I heard the crack of a branch in the trees. But it was probably just 
a squirrel. Since Farean had hatched, all my senses had become 
keener. I wanted to ask Esgeril if that was normal or another one of 
my freak abilities. But we had to be on speaking terms for that.  
But squirrels didn't talk and I could hear voices as well. They were 
low and still far off, but I wasn't alone out here. I recalled Authand's 
warning about Roland. Was he that thirsty for revenge that he'd risk 
coming to the camp? I inched closer; I needed to know what I was 
up against.  
"Does he think I'd really d ouble cross him like that?" Lewon said 
in an agitated whisper. "She called her dragon. How was I supposed 
to know she could do that? We were over ten leagues away. I can 
only reach Calen from three."  
"You cost Roland his prize. And he always collects. If n ot the girl, 
then you," Bior said.  
"But no one would pay a ransom for me."  
"Roland will think of a use for you." From my vantage point, I 
could see Bior's fangs gleam in the moonlight.  
If Bior was here, there would be other Nightbloods about.  
That was the last thought I had before the flash of pain at the back 
of my head and everything went dark.  
I woke slowly. My head throbbed and acrid smoke wafted in my 
face carried by a light breeze. I opened my eyes to find myself loosely 
tied to a huge boulder.  
As my vision adjusted to the dim light of the fire, I saw Roland 
sitting in an ornate wooden chair. It seemed out of place surrounded 
by the crude treatments of a military unit in the field behind him, but 
Royal Dragoneer   164 
 Roland did have certain flair. He stared at me, ob viously aware I had 
returned to consciousness.  
"So, the Princess is the first to wake," he said, holding out his 
hand to Bior who stood to his right. "Bior, you owe me ten gold 
coins. I told you she was the tough one. The boy is still drooling in 
his sleep ." 
"The boy? What  boy?" I rolled my aching head gently to the right, 
following Bior’s glaring glance, and found myself face -to-face with 
Lewon. We were tied to the same tree. His shoulder was touching 
mine, and his once handsome face was a dark swollen bru ise. Slowly, 
my foggy brain put two -and-two together. They hadn’t just taken me 
from training camp. They’d taken Lewon, too.  
"I hit him much harder than Pani hit her," Bior said, handing a 
fistful of coins to his boss.  
"Well, wake him up then," Roland comm anded. "Douse him with 
a bucket of water or something. I don’t want to have to explain all 
my delectable plans for them twice."  
So, Bior fetched a bucket of water and poured it over Lewon’s 
head. Of course, it hit me too, waking me up even more.  
Lewon coug hed like he was drowning, his head lolling back and 
forth, his eyes rolling open and squinting against the glare of the 
firelight.  
"I would have come willingly, Roland," he sputtered. "You didn’t 
have to have your lapdog punch me in the face."  
"Not if you’ d known what I have planned," Roland said. "I 
wouldn't normally lower myself to such rough conditions as this, but 
you are worth it. Thanks to your betrayal," Roland pointed a long 
finger at me, "she escaped."  
"I told Bior, I had no part of that." Lewon sp at. "It’s not my fault 
you’re incompetent."  
Bior bared his fangs. "Let me drain him, boss."  
Roland waved him off. "As much as I'd like to be rid of the 
troublemaker, we need him alive for now. His fate will be that of the 
girl's. No one has escaped me befo re. It’s bad for business. Instead of 
165  Ash Rober ts 
 ransom, I have a more permanent solution for the two of you. I think 
I will turn you over to my brother."  
I blinked, not understanding, my headache making it even harder 
to think. A Goblin with graying hair came forwar d, out of the 
shadows. I did not know their military insignia well, but he seemed to 
be some sort of high ranking official. As he stepped nearer to Roland 
and into the firelight, I could see the family resemblance.  
"This is my younger brother, Ariz, low ge neral of the Goblin 
armies." Roland turned to Aziz. "My brother, I have brought you two 
dragons tonight."  
With Ariz standing next to him, Roland seemed almost humble. 
He kept his eyes down respectfully, as one might do in the presence 
of a noble. Roland bo wed to no king, but next to his sibling, he acted 
like a servant. Ariz, for his part stood with the relaxed confidence of 
someone who had spent a lifetime leading others. His face conveyed 
no love for his brother. To him, Roland was just another underling.  
"I imagine you expect extra payment for it," the Goblin general 
hissed.  
"Consider her a gift," Roland said. "  
"We're not family!" Ariz snapped. "You forsook your family to 
become this abomination." His hand swept over Roland's form.  
"Father didn't exactly  give me a choice, did he?" Roland' 
protested. "If my maker hadn't found me, I would be dead."  
"That would have been better," Aziz said, cold -heartedly. "Collect 
your money and leave us."  
Roland nodded. "The witch will be here within the hour." He got 
up, glancing at Bior who had stood silently beside his boss 
throughout the entire exchange. Then, they both melted into the 
shadows of the forest, taking Roland’s odd chair with them.  
Ariz approached the stone Lewon and I were bound to and 
examined me. "You ar e very valuable, Princess," he said, his breath 
wafting across my face. "And your beasts will provide much 
nourishment to my soldiers. But never fear. I will return you to your 
father. Well, part of you, at least."  
Royal Dragoneer   166 
 I shivered at his threat. Then I remember ed my years of training in 
Kastea. Squaring my shoulders as much as the rope allowed, I looked 
him in the eye. "I'm afraid you’ve wasted your time. Our dragons 
aren’t with us. Farean and Calen are still safe back at camp."  
Ariz laughed,  a hoarse, guttural sound that reminded me of a dying 
animal. "They will come," he said. "You are too precious to them, 
because of that slavery you have been forced into by your false god. 
We seek merely to free you. The world will thank us one day for 
ridding you of those vile creatures."  
"If you live off the meat of gross animals," I said. "It's a surprise 
you didn’t succumb to cannibalism ages ago."  
Lewon snorted out a laugh.  
Ariz maintained a calm facade, but his eyes burned with rage. "I 
hear the witch 's spell is painful." The corners of his lips twitched, like 
he was trying to smile but couldn't remember how. "I wish I could 
watch, but a General's work is never done."  
After he walked away into the darkness, I craned my head towards 
Lewon. "What's he ta lking about?"  
The color was gone from his face. "There are stories. Oh, gods, I 
thought they were just stories. There are witches to the north. 
Outcasts from the seven kingdoms who live among the feral dragons 
in the mountains. They're said to train in the  old magics. Perversions 
of the things we used to be able to do. They say they have a spell to 
break the bond between dragon and rider."  
"But Authand said…" The rest of my protest died on my lips. It 
was hard to imagine six months ago that I’d wanted the v ery thing 
Lewon was talking about. Now, the thought repulsed me.  
"He probably doesn't believe the stories. They're things whispered 
in the dark, designed to scare children. Besides, if it is true, it doesn't 
end well for the dragon. It's like they're dead inside. And the rider 
doesn't fare much better."  
I shivered. "Why would Ariz bother with it then? Why not just kill 
us?" 
167  Ash Rober ts 
 Lewon shook his head. "I think he thinks he is saving us from the 
dragons, like they control us instead of the other way round."  
"Farea n, can you hear me? Don’t  come for me. It’s too dangerous.  Just get 
Authand. "Through our connection, I got nothing but a faint sensation 
of rushing wind. She must be sleeping. She hadn’t heard me, but it 
also meant that she was safe.  
Beside me, lines creas ed Lewon’s forehead. "Calen’s not answering 
me. We should still be in range. I don’t think they took us that far."  
A Goblin soldier approached us carrying an earthen cup. He 
pressed it to my lips. He was a full head shorter than me and had to 
raise it over  his head to reach. "Drink."  
The thin, grey liquid bubbled as if boiling, but gave off no heat. It 
smelled like a wine that had gone rancid in the skin. I pursed my lips 
against it, knowing that whatever it was, it was nothing good.  
Lewon kicked at him. Ou r feet had been tied, but apparently he’d 
worked his foot out of his boot. "Get that away from us, greyskin."  
The kick jostled the soldier, but he didn’t spill the drink. He pulled 
a dagger from his belt andpressed it against my right wrist, 
threatening to  sever my hand. He probably assumed it was my lesser 
one. "The General wantsss you alive, but you don’t have to be in one 
piece."  
I gulped and opened my mouth. He forced the liquid down; it 
tasted worse than it smelled. "What was that?"  
"It will confuse yo ur dragons and make them easier to capture."  
I whimpered. Already, my mind felt fuzzy. Farean was rousing, but 
her thoughts didn’t make sense. "Why am I the only one who has to 
drink it?"  
Lewon shot me a dirty look. Calling attention to a potential 
advanta ge wasn’t the best plan.  
The soldier laughed, a wet, raspy sound. I’d cover my ears if I 
could move. "You both received a dose before you woke. His dragon 
is already here. Yours just needed more encouragement."  
A second soldier approached. "The witch is he re. The General 
wants the boy."  
Royal Dragoneer   168 
 With the dagger still in his hand, the first one cut the knot holding 
the ropes. I was still secured to the tree, but Lewon lunged forward.  
The second soldier wrapped the loose end of the rope around 
Lewon's neck. His eyes b ulged as it dug into his skin and cut off his 
air supply. The Goblin wrapped more rope around his wrists before 
letting the loop around his neck slacken. Lewon gasped in deep 
lungsful of air before the soldier kicked him. "It's time for you to 
meet your dr agon for the last time.  
They left me alone with my thoughts, which I directed at Farean 
through our now fuzzy connection. " Please  don't come. Just get Authand.  
It's too dangerous  for you."No coherent response came back, just a vague 
feeling of confusion and rage.  
The Goblins lit a fire in a nearby clearing that dwarfed the one I 
was in. On one side of it, they secured Lewon to another tree. 
Directly across the bonfire, Calen was laying on his  side with his legs 
bound together. Braided vines wrapped around his neck. They were 
attached to a similar loop being secured around Lewon's neck.  
Ariz was nowhere in sight, but a woman shrouded in dark robes 
directed the effort. I couldn't tell her race. The firelight cast weird 
shadows over her features, and a hood covered most of her head. 
This must be the witch who would sunder the bond between Farean 
and me, if she came here. This was the person who would rob me of 
the one thing I'd come to value more than my own life.  
The leaves rustled around me as if there was a wind, but I felt 
none. A sentry near the clearing let out a yell and then was gone. The 
scream alerted the others, and a company of Goblins stationed in the 
darkness came forward. A flash of blue shot out from the trees and 
grabbed another before disappearing again into the night sky.  
Archers shot bolts and arrows into the dark. One must have found 
its mark, because I heard Farean scream, both aloud and in my head. 
She dropped her captive. He landed not twenty feet from me with a 
crunch and didn't move.  
169  Ash Rober ts 
 I felt a hand on my shoulder and jumped as much as my bindings 
would allow. Meril crossed into my field of vision. "You saved me, 
and through that, my pups. I have come to repay that debt."  
I nodded but said nothing. She pulled at the ropes, but the knots 
were too tight. She shook her head and took a step back. Her hand 
folded before my eyes, her finger shortening and growing fur. The 
transformation looked extremely painful, but she stood there w ith 
only a grimace.  
She exhaled slowly. Sweat dotted her forehead and her skin was 
almost as pale as Roland’s had been. She flicked her wrist and a long 
serrated claw unfolded from her body. She returned her attention to 
me and used it on the rope, slicing  it like it was nothing. Then she 
used her normal human hand to pull the ruins of the rope away from 
me. 
Meril cocked her head at some sound that even my own keen 
hearing couldn't discern. A girl about five years old stumbled into the 
clearing wearing noth ing but a tattered blouse that reached her knees. 
Behind him came a boy of the same age. Instead of clothing, brown 
fur covered all of his body save his face.  
"Tem, Bere, I told you to wait for me in the den," Meril scolded 
with a growl in the back of her throat.  
"We were bored," the girl whined.  
"I told Tem to stay, but she wouldn't listen," the boy added.  
Meril was about to say something, but suddenly pounced at the 
boy instead. She transformed into a wolf mid leap. Bere's eyes 
widened and dropped to the ground as his body changed shape as 
well. Meril's fangs dug into the arm of a Goblin who'd snuck behind 
the boy with a raised knife. The Goblin screamed as she mauled him, 
slicing gashes across his neck he would not survive.  
But the noise had alerted the t roops and a contingent from the 
ones surrounding Farean broke off in our direction.  
"Save your dragon," Meril growled. Her words came through 
slurred by the shape of her wolf mouth. "I can't fight them alone."  
Royal Dragoneer   170 
 I looked back at Farean again. She was surroun ded by Goblins. 
Arrows hampered her wing and taking to the air seemed unlikely at 
this point. Farther off, the witch hurried to complete the preparations 
to rip the dragon bond from Lewon. I wouldn't be able to free him in 
time to be any help.  
I spied a ra ck of swords near the line of tents. I grabbed one and 
charged for the nearest beast. The blade's balance was different from 
the one I was used to, and my first couple of thrusts were awkward 
and missed their mark.  
Two turned from Farean, aiming their bows  at me. I thrust at the 
one on the right, slicing through the bow string and pulling the 
weapon from her hands while she fell back. I flung it towards her 
companion as he was notching his arrow. He flinched as the ruined 
bow clattered against his body.  
I used the distraction to attack. His leather armor held against my 
swing, but it knocked him to the ground. He dropped the bow and 
pulled out a dagger. While my sword had more reach, he undoubtedly 
had more training.  
Farean shrieked and I took my eye off my opponent to see an 
arrow lodged between her scales near the wing joint. Then the 
Goblin was upon me. I attempted to block, but steel bit into my 
unprotected forearm, carving a deep gash. I dropped the sword as 
blood welled to the surface.  
I went for the sw ord on the ground, but he was faster and kicked 
it away. He lunged again. I tried to roll but he leapt on top of me, 
pinning me to the mud. My mind flashed through defenses Lewon 
had taught me, but before I could implement one, the Goblin 
screamed and drop ped his weapon, falling on top of me.  
I grunted, pushing his writhing body to the side, only to reveal 
Tem with his bloody boot in her mouth. Gouges ran the length of his 
calf with bits of leather stuck in the wounds. She spit out the boot 
and ran off towa rds another unsuspecting Goblin, her tail wagging 
behind her.  
171  Ash Rober ts 
 I reached for my sword, but when I turned back around, the 
Goblin was gone. I looked up to see him dangling from Farean's 
jaws. A sickening crunch filled the air as she severed his body in half.  
She also had the she -Goblin pinned under her paw, which she 
lifted, eyeing the thing like a giant cat with a mouse. She lifted her 
foot, and the Goblin crab -walked backwards. Farean reared and 
landed with a thud pushing her claw through the Goblin’s chest . 
I struggled to keep the contents of my stomach intact.A tortured 
yelp from Lewon brought my attention back to his situation. The 
witch had finished the preparations and was now working on 
channeling  magic into the cable physically linking him to his dragon. 
Green sparks danced along its length.  
I glanced over at the witch. Her eyes were rolled back into her 
head. Unless she could magically sense me, she wouldn’t be able to 
stop me.  
I kept my head on a swivel as I made my way over to Lewon. 
Unless they had fled, Ariz and the first two soldiers we’d seen were 
still somewhere nearby.  
As I approached, however, rage filled me. Lewon had gotten me 
kidnapped, not just once, but twice. He’d led me on and ruin ed my 
relationship with Esgeril. Friendship, I corrected myself, coming to a 
stop just a few feet from where Lewon was bound. What I’d lost with 
Esgeril was a friendship, not a romance. Although, if I was being 
honest with myself, if she’d been a boy, I mi ght never have fallen for 
Lewon’s lies.  
"Help me," he croaked, returning me to the present.  
"Why should I?" I shot back. "All of this is your fault."  
"I know. I’m sorry." His breath came in short, jagged bursts. 
"None of this was supposed to happen. Roland  was just going to 
rough you up a little, just for show, until your father delivered the 
ransom. Nobody was supposed to get hurt."  
I stomped my foot."You’re just sorry because Roland thinks you 
double crossed him."  
Royal Dragoneer   172 
 "No, I am. Besides you need me. Do you th ink you can defeat a 
Goblin general on your own?"  
He had a point, but then again, Meril was still here. As if on cue, 
she trotted up to us. Blood matted her fur, but it didn’t appear to be 
hers. Behind her, Tem and Bere fought over a severed Goblin leg.  
"My debt is repaid," she said. "Now I must take my pups back to 
safety."  
I bowed before her. "Thank you. It is now I, who am in your 
debt." And then she and her pups still disappeared into the woods 
faster than my eyes could follow.  
I turned back to Lewon. " Okay, I guess I’m stuck with you." I 
sawed through his bindings with my sword until he was free. He 
yanked the braided vines off his head, which set off a burst in the 
bonfire.  
That got the witch’s attention. She yelled as if the pain Lewon had 
been feelin g had rebounded back on her. She looked around and saw 
that the Goblins who had been hired to guard her were gone. She 
clapped her hands and transformed into an eagle, flying away.  
Lewon crossed the clearing to where Calen still lay bound. 
Grabbing a dagge r from one of the fallen Goblins, he made quick 
work of freeing his dragon. He fashioned a crude harness not unlike 
the one I’d first worn with Farean, and climbed onto Calen’s back.  
"What are you doing? Ariz is still out there," I said.  
"That’s your probl em," he sneered. "I need to get back before 
Authand notices I’m missing."  
"If you leave me here, I’ll tell Authand that you’re working with 
Roland."  
He shook his head."If you make it back, you’d do best to keep 
your mouth shut. What’s Authand going to do i f he finds out you 
were sneaking out after curfew?"  
"So were you."  
"I’ll be getting back a bit later than expected, but my alibi is 
already secure." With that, they lifted off and disappeared into the 
night.  
173  Ash Rober ts 
 I shook my head. As much as I hated to admit it,  he was probably 
right. I’d broken curfew and if the Goblins were really this close to 
Tulta, they might have captured me without Lewon’s help. I crossed 
the muddy ground to Farean’s side as she licked the blood from her 
foot. My stomach somersaulted again  before I looked away.  
"The tree". I could sense her pointing in my mind and looked in 
that direction  
His lieutenant leapt from the tree onto her back, plunging another 
dagger in the gap between her scales. She screamed and reared, but 
he kept his hold on the blade buried between her shoulders. I 
climbed up her leg and faced him. He looked from me to the dagger 
as if trying to decide to continue with Ariz’s order or defend himself.  
I took a step forward and he yanked the blade from Farean’s hide. 
He stood, bringing it into a guard position. The other soldier 
dropped to Farean’s back as well, leaving Ariz alone in the tree.  
The second soldier dropped to a knee and slid his own dagger into 
a fresh wound. Farean snapped and thrashed, sending the lieutenant 
and me to our knees as we struggled to keep from being thrown.  
He rose to his feet, but I stayed low. He advanced while I faked a 
struggle to regain my balance. He took slow, shuffling steps across 
Farean’s back, but I held my position. He came within striking  
distance and shifted his grip on the hilt. I pushed up and knocked 
him clear off Farean’s back.  
She dove at the body and came up again with the Goblins leg in 
her mouth, her teeth streaked with red. The other Goblin’s eyes went 
wide, and I rushed him. He knelt for the dagger, but I reached him 
first. My momentum pushed us both off Farean’s back.  
I landed on top and punched him in the face. His head bounced 
against a rock, and I hit him again. Eyes rolled back in their sockets, 
but still I continued until h e laid there unmoving and my hands 
throbbed from the impact.  
I remembered Ariz and looked up but the coward was gone. I 
scanned the tree line in search of him, but Farean’s plaintive cries 
Royal Dragoneer   174 
 brought my attention back to her. I scrambled up her side and pulle d 
the blade from where is had been buried.  
It hurts,  she whimpered as I withdrew it. Along with the two 
gouges on her back, her wings were torn and bleeding. A scale was 
missing from her leg. I took in the damage she had taken while 
defending me. All thoug hts of leaving vanished and anger grew in my 
breast, that she’d been hurt for my sake.  
I went through and removed the bolts and arrows that had lodged 
between scales. Her wings were in even worse shape than I had 
previously believed. Farean would not fly a gain tonight, if she ever 
reached the air again. I placed my body against hers, my hands warm 
where they touched her. I looked again, and they glowed with soft 
light. I pressed them against a hole in her wing.  
The wound glowed with the same light from my h ands. They grew 
warm, even painful, but I continued until I saw the edges knit 
themselves back together. My body grew warm and steadily weaker as 
the life energy was sucked from me.  
I pulled away and the hole was gone, replaced by translucent blue 
skin tha t covered her wings. I did this on the next wound, and the 
one after, taking my time on each on. "Is that better?" The glow 
faded from my hands, and I rubbed her neck ridge.  
My stomach  hurts"." She rubbed at her belly with a hind leg for 
effect. I rushed o ver to feel for myself, although I had no clue what I 
was actually looking for. I think I ate something  rotten.  
I swatted her rump for the bad joke but laughed in spite of myself. 
I looked at the sky. The Kingsmoon was in danger of setting now. 
Soon the su n would poke above the horizon and reveal our absence 
to the other Dragoneers.  
Now that Farean had healed enough to fly, I needed to figure out 
how to secure myself. I had my half of the harness, but that didn’t do 
much good when Farean’s half lay safely t ucked in its storage box 
back at camp. The remainder of the ropes wouldn’t provide enough 
cordage. I scanned the meager tents and found a likely target. Taking 
care to not run afoul of the stakes, I picked my way across the camp 
175  Ash Rober ts 
 to it. Pulling my Goblin bl ade in front of me, I pulled the flap aside 
and looked in.  
No foes waited inside, but it wasn’t empty. As I’d suspected, their 
supplies lay stacked in packs. I tried hefting one, barely clearing the 
ground. While the elves towered over the vile creatures, they had the 
superior strength. I lowered the pack again and instead sifted through 
the contents. Mostly the packs contained rations of vile meats 
wrapped in oilcloth, but in a side pouch, I found a length of sturdy 
looking rope.  
I ran back to Farean and c oiled it around her chest, securing it 
with the knots I’d been learning at the camp. I tied loops at the ends 
and triple knotted them to be sure. Climbing to my spot on her back, 
I clipped into these loops and gave them a tentative pull. I tracked 
the King smoon once more; no more than an hour remained until 
dawn and even less by the tower’s standards.  
"Go," I urged her, and she leapt into the air. Up in the sky, the 
first strands of pink light of predawn glowed over the horizon. I 
urged her faster, but the sky lightened faster than we could fly.  
A mile from camp, Farean dove back into the trees. It was darker 
there, and I could barely make out the ends of her wings, but she 
deftly swerved through the dense foliage until she cleared it at the 
lake. 
The tower would read dawn in minutes now. We flew low to avoid 
detection, the pale blue of her scales being masked by the dark water. 
I could feel the cool air steaming from the surface, and I pulled my 
feet up unconsciously to keep them from getting wet.  
We cleared  the lake and continued just above the ground, eddies 
of dust swirling around us with each powerful flap. She didn’t begin 
slowing until almost upon the stable wall. The opening wouldn’t 
allow her full wingspan and she tucked them in. We cleared the 
openin g by inches and inside the room that no longer seemed so 
cavernous, she spread out again and beat in reverse to slow down 
while grabbing at the ground.  
Royal Dragoneer   176 
 Her momentum stopped, and I lurched forward but my knots 
held. The morning horn sounded; I couldn’t make  it back to the 
barracks now. Instead, I untied the rope and shoved it in my pack 
before crawling into the crook over her foreleg. Her breathing 
labored but slowed as I pressed against her. My own breath was 
ragged as well. What would they do when they fou nd me here? There 
was nothing I could do and leaving would only make my discovery 
more suspicious.  
Farean began snoring. The exertions and battles of the day were 
over, and dragons need their rest. Her sleep affected me as well. I 
struggled for several min utes, but the siren song of slumber soon 
overtook me.  
 
 
 
Farean and I flew above the treetops as she practiced her 
maneuvers. She swooped low above the trees and I caught my ankle 
on an errant branch. "Hey, careful." She ignored me as she rose again 
and then I hit another branch.  
I opened my eyes. Authand looked down at me as he tapped the 
side of his steel claw against his leather breeches. I blinked a couple 
times and suppressed a yawn. Judging by the shadows, I couldn’t 
have slept more than an hour.  
"Didn’t we just have this conversation? I haven’t even had a meal 
yet since I warned you what would happen if you left camp without 
permission again.  
All traces of sleep left my brain and I stood before him . "I didn’t 
leave camp. I slept in the stables."  
He took a deep breath and held it for a moment before exhaling 
slowly. "Then why are you in your harness?"  
"I wasn’t going to sleep in the dirt in my nightgown." The words 
left my lips before I had even real ized that I had the lie ready -made. I 
looked at my hands; they were caked in dirt with a red smudge giving 
away my fight with the Goblins. I rubbed it against my thigh.  
His eyes followed the motion but he just chuckled.  
"Now I know that the others have bee n giving you a hard time 
here, but I can’t have you violating curfew and coming to the stables 
at all hours of the night either." He paced the small space, waking 
Farean. She lifted her head and looked from him to me, not willing to 
ask her question with s o many telepathic ears present.  
Royal Dragoneer   178 
 I wasn’t sure how much I could say to her either so I simply sent 
her a feeling of warmth and contentment and hoped she got the 
message. Can you sleep with me more often?  The question, benign as it 
was, held volumes of conve rsation.  
"The Colonel was just saying that I couldn’t before you woke." I 
shook my head. I took a step closer to her and hugged her as she 
nuzzled against my chest.  
"I understand the appeal. I often wish that Korth and I were still 
out in the field where w e were rarely more than a few feet from one 
another. But we have rules for a reason. This is your last chance to 
start following them. ALL of them."  
"Yes, sir." Calling the instructors sir instead of their given name 
still required conscious thought, but I  thought the moment warranted 
it. 
"For your punishment, you must skip breakfast and take Farean 
down to the lake to clean her. She must have been rolling in some 
clay mud. It almost looks as if someone bled out all over her."  
"Yes, sir," I repeated. I knew  better than to argue or question the 
boon I’d been given. Instead, I grabbed the bag that had given me 
away and rushed through the still open door for the barracks. "Meet 
me at the lake in ten minutes," I called over my shoulder.  
I turned back to the path  just in time to bowl Esgeril over. She let 
out a little shriek as she tumbled and fell. I reached out a hand to 
help her up, but she recoiled away from me.  
"I’m sorry." I couldn’t meet her eyes. Instead, I found myself 
inspecting the Aluminte rings on the  front of my harness.  
"You are sorry," she muttered. "You have got to be the sorriest 
excuse for a Dragoneer I have ever seen." She got up and pushed 
passed me, knocking me on the shoulder as she went by, despite the 
fact that there was plenty of room on t he path for both of us. Maybe 
I deserved it for running her down.  
I kicked at a stray rock, watching it bounce down the cobblestone 
path before it came to a stop between the rough stones. She’d 
warned me about Lewon, and I hadn’t listened. She’d tried to b e a 
179  Ash Rober ts 
 friend, and I’d rejected her. But to say I was a bad Dragoneer after all 
the effort I’d put in? That really hurt.  
I didn’t see her taking on a company of Goblins and an evil witch. 
I almost wished Lewon and I had gotten caught returning, so I didn’t 
have to lie about that feat. I was no longer the soft and frivolous girl 
who’d run away at the hatching. Now the night dress scrunched 
under my harness barely contained the muscles I’d built in my 
shoulders from the physical activity around camp.  
I might eve n take Florian in a fair fight, not that I expected her 
capable of such a thing. Lewon’s lessons had included hand to hand 
combat. He’d gotten angry because I always lost those sessions, but 
in fact, I let him win towards the end, relishing being pinned to  the 
ground underneath him. What an idiot I’d been to let those feelings 
grow for someone so unworthy of them.  
All I felt now was contempt for Lewon. But he’d earned it. Had I 
been a fool to go back for him and risk Farean and myself? Probably. 
But I’d do it again, even knowing he wouldn’t do the same for me. I 
was learning I couldn’t let what other people did change who I was. 
Besides, his dragon hadn’t deserved to be severed, even if Lewon 
had. 
After I changed and had breakfast, I scrubbed Farean until he r 
scales shone, while she regaled me with stories of our victory as if I 
hadn’t been there. And I had to remind her that it was our little 
secret. It took all morning, but I lifted each scale to clean the grime 
underneath and polished the tops. I squinted,  looking at her as she 
reflected the brilliance of the sun.  
Between my lack of sleep and the effort I’d put into cleaning, 
curling up against Farean where she dozed in the sand seemed 
tempting. But the lunch bell rang, and my stomach reminded me I’d 
been m issing too many meals lately.  
The hall went silent as I entered, and I felt hundreds of eyes on 
me as I made my way to the line. The silence was short lived, 
however, and soon the buzz of voices resumed. As I passed the 
Royal Dragoneer   180 
 tables, I discovered much of it was gossip about me, meant for me to 
overhear. I simply ignored it and took my food to an empty table.  
A group of third year girls sat at the table beside me. They 
watched me sit and, as if a single entity with ten legs and ten arms, 
stood and moved to a table  farther away.  
Empty tables now surrounded me. That was fine by me. Alone, I 
couldn’t hear the barbs being spoken a little too loudly. The room 
suddenly fell silent, and I looked up to see Colonel Authand standing 
at the front.  
"I have put a signup sheet outside," he announced. "Anyone 
wishing to compete for a slot at the Darnetan Dragon Run must 
submit their name by the end of the day. Your instructors will 
consider your progress in all areas and five of you will be chosen to 
represent the training ground s." 
The hall broke into loud murmuring. If I’d had anyone to talk to, I 
would have joined in. This could be my chance to prove my worth 
and be taken seriously. I shoveled my lunch down and got up to 
dump my trash.  
On the way out the door, I noticed Authand  staring at me from 
the teacher’s table. Were his eyes daring me to sign -up, or daring me 
not too?  
As promised, a sheet had been nailed to the wooden 
announcement board. The top simply read "Tryouts" with several 
rows of blank lines. A charcoal stick sat o n the lip. Well, it wasn’t like 
I could become any more of a laughing stock than I already was. 
What did I have to lose?  
I took a breath and scribbled my name before I had a chance to 
back down. By being first, at least I’d shown I wasn’t afraid of my 
peers, or their opinions of me.  
 
 
 
Authand and the other instructors spent a week fielding questions 
from curious Dragoneers before posting a leaderboard  outside the 
mess hall. I was listed as number twenty out of twenty -one student 
candidates. Not a great start, but at least I wasn’t dead last. Lewon 
first and Florian was right behind him. But I couldn’t let that bother 
me. 
The second week, I had moved up  to tenth place. My instructors 
were beginning to recognize my progress. I even made it into the 
advanced class that Selkerdrim taught as a teacher’s assistant. "I want 
the glove from the top of the flag pole," Selkerdrim shouted through 
the amplifying hor n he’d borrowed from the professor. I followed 
her pointer to the Darnetan flag flapping in the wind. Above it sat 
the familiar dragon filial. But a leather glove covered its left wing.  
Farean growled. I could feel her neck muscles clenching. Despite 
multi ple attempts, we still hadn’t managed to grab anything while 
midair. Attempts usually ended in an emergency landing so Farean 
could heal a broken wrist. I knew that each healing provided a full 
renewal so that injuries became good as new. But it still thro bbed 
when I thought about it.  
I exhaled slowly. "We can do this. I’ve got a feeling." She said 
nothing but rose up for the approach. She felt at the flagpole, the sun 
at our backs to reduce glare. The metal post approached more 
quickly than I would have li ked. I squinted at the glove, willing it to 
leap into my hand. Fifty feet to go.  
Farean folded her wing in, sending us into a tilting swirl. Twenty 
feet to go. I extended my arm, lining it up with my target, following it 
as our angle changed. Ten feet. I l eaned forward. I knew in my gut 
Royal Dragoneer   182 
 that I could make it. Five feet. I knew better, but in my mind, I could 
smell the leather.  
*CRACK*  
Pigeons roosting on the stable roof flew off in protest as my 
scream echoed off every building in the camp. Farean dropped to  the 
ground. The jolt sent a fresh wave of pain through my dangling wrist.  
Selkerdrim saw my arm and turned green. "Oh gods. Let me get 
the healer."  
"No, wait." I gritted my teeth through the pain. "Help me down." 
I’d gotten quite good at extricating mysel f from the harness with only 
one hand, but one buckle required putting some pressure on my right 
arm to reach.  
I slid down Farean’s back while Selkerdrim supported me. I 
whimpered as I held the broken joint out to my dragon. She grasped 
the offending limb with her claw. Tears welled in my eyes, and I 
fought to contain them. I’d failed the challenge yet again and while 
being evaluated to boot. At the very least, I would keep some dignity 
in being seen to withstand the pain even though I wanted little more 
to curl up into a ball and cry.  
Soft light pulsed under the tiny scales about her limb, radiating 
towards the point of our contact. I took short, panting breaths as 
heat spread over my arm, seeping deep under the skin. This part 
never got any easier but I kn ew in. Few moments it would pass in a 
few moments. I could feel the bones knit together.  
The glow subsided and Farean released me. I flexed my fingers 
slowly. The pain was gone, except for the hallow memory of it which 
never seemed to quite fade.  
Selkerdri m stared at me, his mouth opening and closing several 
times before he found his tongue. "How did you do that? Nobody 
can do that. No elf has had magic that strong since the days of 
Vernis. Does this hurt?" He grabbed my hand and squeezed where 
the freshly healed tissue.  
The name he mentioned tickled something in the back of my 
mind, a familiarity I couldn’t quite place. I wanted to ask him who 
183  Ash Rober ts 
 that was, but the query was quickly submerged under a sea of his own 
questions.  
"Don’t tell anyone," I told her. "O nly you and Esgeril know." 
Speaking her name still hurt. I wondered if she would betray my trust 
now that we were no longer friends.  
"I." His next words where overpowered by the sound of the horn 
blowing. We turned at the sound. The next emergency drill sh ouldn’t 
happen for weeks yet. We headed towards the sound, soon joined by 
other elves streaming out of the buildings. A few dragon heads poked 
over the crowd, also curious about the unexpected drill.  
We all turned at the sound. We’d just had an emergency d rill two 
days before. It was unlikely to be one again so soon. I moved, 
heading towards the sound, soon joined by other Elves streaming out 
of the buildings. A few dragon heads poked from the stables, alert 
and curious.  
Authand marched to the front of the parade field, pulling his 
harness over his tunic as he went. The buckles gleamed like new, but 
there were reddish stains on his riding leathers under the right breast 
plate, an eternal reminder of the day he’d bloodily lost his hand.  
The aide, whose name nobody seemed to know, handed him a 
speaking horn. The Colonel closed the articulating hook around the 
handle and brought it to his face. "We are under attack from Goblins. 
This is not a drill. Selkerdrim, take Rilith and fly as fast as you can to 
the main  Dragoneer barracks in Verlo to get help."  
Verlo was almost a full day’s flight away. Depending on the size of 
the Goblin force, we might be able to hold them off for two days 
without outside help. These facts came to me easily and instantly, a 
result of o verhearing basic military tactics while playing under my 
father’s war table as a child.  
"Recruits, to arms and defend your home!" Authand called a 
rallying cry.  
Dragoneers jostled each other, some running to the barracks for 
their harnesses, others, who al ready had them on, to the stables.  
Royal Dragoneer   184 
 I was about to run for Farean when Authand grabbed me. "Not 
you, Kalia. Go to my quarters. There is a hatch under my desk that 
will lead you to a cave. I will send Farean to meet you. You’ll be safe 
there, no matter what happens to the camp."  
"But I want to help." I shook him off. "I can’t just cower and hide 
while others are fighting."  
"You can, and you will," he thundered, shaking his hook in my 
face. "I will not put the princess of this kingdom in danger.  
"But—" 
"Go. Th at’s an order, dammit." Something crashed against the 
gate, and the wood started to buckle. "Reinforce the gate!" Authand 
ordered. "I need dragons in the air now!" He ran to where Elves and 
dragons were barricading the entrance.  
"Go to the cave." Farean pl eaded. " I can keep you safe there". I turned to 
find her pacing the ground behind me. I hadn’t even heard her land.  
"Not you, too. We should be up there." I pointed to the sky where 
a dozen dragons carried rocks, logs, and anything they could find to 
drop on the invaders beyond the wall. "We have as much right to 
fight as anyone here."  
Just as I said it, a boulder the size of a cow came sailing over the 
wall. I stood, motionless, as it hit Selkerdrim’s dragon Rilith square in 
the head. Selkerdrim, who had b een mounting the dragon, screamed 
as they both tumbled to the ground. Rilith landed with a sickening 
thud in the grass before us. Neither rider nor dragon moved. I ran 
towards them, and Selkerdrim stirred. Blood trickled from his brow 
where his head had bo unced against Rilith’s bony neck ridge.  
I slowed as I approached. Rilith’s neck lay at an odd angle, his 
head caved in on one side. The Blue dragon was no longer breathing.  
"Selkerdrim, I —" I reached out, trying to help her up.  
"Get away from him!" he scre amed. He had his buckles undone in 
a flash and pulled a knife from his belt as he dropped to the ground. 
"I won’t let you hurt him." Tears flowed down his cheeks as he 
waved the knife from side to side.  
185  Ash Rober ts 
 Farean bellowed behind me. I turned but saw nothing w rong. 
Around the camp the other dragons joined in her baleful cry.  
"He’s dead, Selkerdrim," I said softly. "And you’re hurt. We need 
to get you to the healer." I took a step forward.  
"He’s not dead," he insisted, his eyes lost and confused. "He’s just 
sleeping. Stay away from us."  
I looked around. Everyone was too busy to even notice that Rilith 
had fallen. I couldn’t see Authand, but he needed to send somebody 
else to fetch Dragoneers reinforcements. But if I waded into the 
battle to try and find him, he’d  be pissed. And if no one flew to get 
reinforcements, we’d all be dead.  
"We’ll go," I told Farean. I closed the few feet between us, 
mounted her, and buckled myself in.  
"But"— 
"Now! " I commanded. " You want safe? How much safer can we be than 
flying to the other side of the country?  " 
She considered my argument for a moment, then launched us into 
the air.  
Within seconds, another boulder missile was hurtling toward us.  
"Down.  "I directed.  
Farean tucked her wings and rolled away from the projectile.  
I felt the  air riffle as it passed inches from us.  
Farean started flapping again, gaining altitude.  
We passed over Authand.  
Seeing us overhead, he shouted. "What are you doing? Get down 
here, you idiot girl!"  
I pointed down at Selkerdrim still defending his dead dra gon and 
turned away from him.  
Farean lurched, catching a smaller boulder aimed at us in her 
talons. She labored under its weight, getting closer to the wall before 
tossing it back down on the Goblins. They scattered like 
cockroaches, but quickly returned t o loading their trebuchets.  
I saw Esgeril crouched behind a merlon at the top of the wall, 
firing her crossbow with deadly accuracy. She saved her shots for 
Royal Dragoneer   186 
 those closest to overcoming the defenses. Even so, she’d already 
emptied half of her quiver in the few short minutes since the battle 
began.  
The curve in the wall blocked her view of most of the action to 
her left. We had few enough archers, and that left an unguarded gap. 
I wondered that nobody had ever noticed it before; it seemed 
obvious enough from the air. But what my fellow Dragoneers hadn’t 
seen, the Goblins had. Already, a ladder leaned against that section of 
wall with one of their fighters approaching the battlement.  
I shouted to Esgeril, but the din of the fighting drowned out my 
voice. Farean  banked hard and flew straight at the vile creature. I 
tensed as we sped towards the wall, but Farean was an expert flyer. I 
trusted her with my life.  
Mere feet separated the Goblin from Esgeril, but her attention still 
lay on the ground below, trusting th e archers to her left to protect 
her blind side. The Goblin drew its dagger as it closed the gap.  
We weren’t going to make it in time.  
Farean pushed harder. Instead of pulling up and grabbing with her 
feet as I’d expected, she dove.  
Her jaws crunched down and she grabbed the Goblin by its arm. 
Farean shook her head as her prey struggled to get loose. We barely 
cleared Esgeril, who finally turned as our shadow darkened the sky 
above her. She looked around, saw the glistening dagger the Goblin 
had dropped on the wall, and mouthed what looked like a "thank 
you," as we flew away.  
The Goblin struggled, grabbing at Farean’s eye ridge with his free 
arm, trying to gouge her eyeball.  
She chomped down harder, and I heard bones snap as the Goblin 
screamed.  
"Bleh. It tastes terrible ", she said. " What  should  I do with it?" 
"Fly back over the wall and drop it like you did the stone", I suggested.  
In a flash, she banked, sending us back over the heads of the 
attacking Goblin forces.  
187  Ash Rober ts 
 She opened her mouth and the Goblin screa med one last time, 
plummeting to the earth and splatting as a red stain below us, sending 
the trebuchet operators running for cover once again.  
They didn’t have a chance to get another shot off at us before 
Farean veered east, heading for Verlo.  
We soon pu t the camp and the fighting behind us, but this was not 
the way I’d wanted to earn my freedom. Still, I leaned back and 
allowed the wind to blow my hair behind me. I let go entirely, 
trusting the harness to hold me and relished the feeling of flying 
alone in the sky with Farean. There was nothing like it.  
Farean beat her wings harder and we rose higher. The trees 
blurred together into one green mass.  
"What  are you doing?  "I asked" . This is too high." 
"Vernis  says the air moves  faster the higher  we go. We can get help sooner. " 
There was that name again. But I didn’t know any Dragoneer with 
a dragon named Vernis. " Who is Vernis? " 
"The dragon  king. " 
"Dragons  don’t have a king", I said. " Do you? " 
Farean caught a gust of wind that threw us forward, making me 
grab the harness. The ground streaked below us. I held on as tight as 
I could, but conversation stopped while I fought to keep my balance 
in the tempest. Above me the clouds seemed just out of reach. 
Holding on with my right arm, I extended my left, stretc hing my 
fingers to gain that extra half inch, but I wasn’t any closer to the 
fluffy cotton than before.  
Without warning, we fell, my stomach flying upward into my 
chest. The sensation lasted only a second and then Farean climbed 
back to our previous altitu de. She was riding the currents and wind 
streams, pushing our speed to the upper limits. I felt her suppressed 
panic, as well as my own, as she struggled to keep flying as the wind 
tossed us about. But she was doing it. I don’t know how, but she 
was. Final ly, we descended and the battering winds abated a little.  
"Did your Vernis  warn you about that?" I grumbled.  
Royal Dragoneer   188 
 Farean continued to ignore my questions about her mysterious 
king, so I let it go.  
The air calmed, and we slowed. I tried to match the landscape 
below to the maps I’d studied at the castle when my father wasn’t 
shooing me away. If I was right about our location, we were a little 
off course.  
Farean corrected to the south, sensing my thoughts.  
There was another problem, though. We weren’t going to make  it 
before sun set. My limited navigation skills would do us no good in 
the dark, and I hadn’t yet taken the class that taught Dragoneers 
navigation by the stars.  
Sensing my worry, Farean picked up the pace. She inched closer to 
the faster air above us, bu t the turbulence exhausted her. I could feel 
her muscles straining, her wings aching. She continued like that for 
an hour, alternating higher and lower, elevations, supplementing the 
slower air speeds with more effort. With each cycle, I could feel her 
fatigue, her wings taking longer and longer to recover from the 
buffeting winds.  
It seeped into me like a winter’s chill. My eyelids drooped. " We 
need a plan." I told her."  If you keep up like this, we’ll crash and nobody  will 
help the training  camp. " 
"I don’t like the crashing  part, but why must we help? None of them like us." 
"Duty isn’t about people  liking  you, it’s about doing what is right." My 
father’s words flowed from my lips. And dammit, he was right. " We 
are Dragoneers. ” I told Farean proudly.  "More than that, I am a princess  to 
these people.  And you are the royal dragon . We have to do our best to protect  
them. It’s what rulers do." 
"The dragon  king is my ruler", she insisted. " But maybe  if we save them, 
they’ll  like us." She sounded hopeful and I rea lized, for the first time, 
that the rejection by the other Dragoneers had really been getting to 
her. How had I not seen that, or felt it.  
"You were having  a hard enough  time without  worrying  about me", she said. 
"Good dragons  don’t worry their riders unless they have to." "But now maybe  
189  Ash Rober ts 
 worry.  I don’t know if we can make it. I’m tired and my wings ache. Can’t  we 
land for just a little bit? 
Without realizing it, we’d left the forests behind. Fields full of 
haystacks sprawled below, dotting the landscape wit h fluffy golden 
circles. Maybe a quick nap in one would help. Farean started 
coasting. " Yes, sleep would  be just the thing". 
But I knew we couldn’t, as tempting as it was. If we stopped, we’d 
never be able to find the training camp in the dark.  
"I have an idea," I said to Farean. " Keep flying. " 
One of the things Flatch had taught me was that aching muscles 
were caused when muscle fibers tore from overuse. If our healing 
magic could knit broken bones and dispel bruises, then restoring 
muscles shouldn’t be th at hard.  
I reached out to Farean’s shoulders where her great muscles flexed 
with each beat. Taking a deep breath, the magic pulsed through my 
hands and into her body. Unlike the other times we had healed each 
other, there was no obvious damage to see repai red. I just kept 
pushing the healing light into her until my own arms began to 
tremble.  
"Enough.  You’ll  hurt yourself.  " 
"Was it enough  though?  "I slowly pushed myself upright. " I can give 
you more." My arms quivered in protest at the mere suggestion of it  
but I didn’t care.  
"I’m good. But you aren’t.  Remember,  we both need to make it there. I won’t 
do any good delivering  them a dead Dragoneer. " As if to prove her point, she 
gained speed, flying faster than we ever had before.  
I let her fly; only occasional ly pointing out landmarks to keep our 
course. Slowly, I regained my energy while Farean lost hers to 
exertion. We landed once for water, but otherwise stayed aloft the 
entire trip. I healed her weary muscles twice more, and each time it 
took more out of me . Finally, as the sun dipped towards the horizon 
behind us, we saw the high walls of Verlo in the distance. As we 
slowed for landing, I lost my grip. I had nothing left and just dangled 
limply from the harness.  
Royal Dragoneer   190 
 My mind barely registered as hands loosened m y harness buckles 
and lifted me off Farean’s back.  
"I—" My mind was having trouble coming up with words, or even 
coherent thoughts. "I need to see General Lutania." The Dragoneers 
transferred me to a stretcher and as they carried me from my dragon, 
I looke d back to her entire body trembling as they brought her a side 
of beef to eat.  
I think I must have passed out, because the next thing I knew a 
scratchy voice said, "Princess Kalia, I’m right here. But you’re half 
dead, poor girl. Get the healers for her. S he’s in no condition to tell 
me anything."  
A hand appeared in front of my face, holding a sweet -smelling 
herb to my mouth.  
I pushed it away. My news couldn’t wait. I needed to tell him now.  
But the hand was stronger than mine. He pressed the herb 
between m y lips and someone commanded, "Eat it!"  
I swallowed, and the little willpower I had to stay awake seeped 
from me.  
 
 
 
"Kalia,  you’re  awake "! Farean screeched in my head like a toddler 
reunited with her favor ite toy.  
I opened my eyes to a dimly lit room with stone walls that gleamed 
from years of being scrubbed. The air smelled like the astringent 
healers used to keep their work spaces clean.  
As the fog in my head cleared, I suddenly remembered my 
purpose and sat up. The room swirled for a minute before steadying. 
"I need to speak to General Lutania, immediately," I said to no one.  
"Kalia," a voice said from behind me. More slowly this time, I 
turned to find the General herself sitting in a chair in the corner,  her 
ankle propped up on her opposite knee like a man.  
"How long have I been asleep?" I demanded. The windowless 
room gave me no cues  
"Only an hour," she said. "I’ve been here the entire time. I 
assumed you’d want to speak to me as soon as you woke. No one  
rides themselves and their dragon into the ground like that for less 
than something dire. But I’m curious why you look like the one that 
had carried her."  
I bit my lip and studied the wooden floorboards. I didn’t want to 
reveal my secret. I was considered  enough of a freak already.  
"I’ve been around Dragoneers a long time," she said, seeing my 
hesitancy. "I suspect I already know. You’re not the only Dragoneer 
to have such a trait. And you’re wise, I believe, to keep to yourself as 
much as possible.  
"So, I wasn’t  the only Dragoneer  to be able to heal with magic? " Well, that 
was both a relief and raised a lot of questions.  
Royal Dragoneer   192 
 Here," she handed me a small pouch exuding a familiar smell. 
"This herb will help restore you when you’ve overextended yourself. 
It’s lik e stimleaf but much more powerful. Don’t use it unless you 
must. For some people, it can be addictive."  
I took the pouch and stuffed it in an inner pocket, thanking her. 
But there were more important things at hand.  
"Sir," I said, "Tulta is under attack by  Goblins." Then, I quickly 
detailed what I knew about their numbers and weapons. I finished by 
relaying my assessment of their ability to break our gate and wall 
defenses within two days’ time.  
"This is grave news, indeed." She stood and made for the door.  
"Stay here, while I mobilize the Dragoneers."  
Soon after he left, the great bell clanged. Habit ingrained in me 
from months of drilling brought me to my feet. The room wobbled, 
and I put a hand on the cot to steady myself. I swallowed a pinch of 
the herb that Lutania had given me. It took a couple more attempts 
to cross the room, but I was a little less dizzy each time.  
I moved to the door and down a hall to an arched exit. Torches lit 
the area outside. I made it to the parade field just as the General 
concluded her announcement. Dragoneers raced past me, hurrying to 
prepare for their cross -country journey. The General spotted me and 
intercepted me on my way to Farean. "Go back to bed. I commend 
you on doing whatever it took to get the news to us, but su ch acts 
come at a cost. You’ve done your part. Now rest."  
I shook my head. "I have to go back and help. Those are my 
friends dying out there. Well, at least one is a friend. I think."  
She put his hand on my shoulder. "Princess, your father has 
ordered us t o keep you out of danger."  
"This again?  First Authand  and now the General. " 
"Sir, my father kicked me out of my home and left me to lodge 
with a swineherd," I said bitterly. "He does not care about my well -
being." Months had passed since that day, but bile  still rose in my 
throat recalling it.  
193  Ash Rober ts 
 "You mean a swineherd that worked for him?" The General asked, 
a glint in her eye. "With a chambermaid daughter who just happened 
to find you in the rain and offer her help."  
My mouth opened. I hadn’t told anyone abou t that. "You mean 
my father arranged that?" I asked, angrily. Somehow that knowledge 
made the whole thing worse. Why throw me out and publicly 
humiliate me, only to help me behind the scenes? I’ll tell you why. He 
still wanted power over me, to keep me fro m becoming a true 
Dragoneer.  
"Listen, I’m going," I told her. "Throw me in the Caves after this 
is over if you have to, but for now I have a duty to uphold."  
He looked away before removing his hand. "I can’t allow you to 
go." 
"But—" 
He held up a hand. "I c an’t allow you. But I’m obviously much 
too busy to actively stop you. Just try not to get yourself killed."  
I nodded. "Thank you."  
Before I even called, Farean was landing by my side.  
I climbed onto her, fastening the harness as we lifted from the 
ground. She wheeled up to the faster higher winds immediately this 
time, the moons in the sky providing enough illumination to navigate 
by. 
"Vernis  showed  me the way home". Farean said.  
"Well, lead the way then," I said, knowing better than to question her 
imaginary king.  
The return trip was better than our earlier flight. We had a tailwind 
this time, and Farean was getting better at utilizing the higher winds. 
The ride was smooth enough that I was able to nap a bit on her back. 
We didn’t stop once, and I on ly had to heal her twice. After the 
second time though, I took a bite of the herb the General had given 
me, feeling the energy surge down my throat and into my limbs. We 
didn’t see or hear the General’s Dragoneers behind us the entire trip, 
but I knew they  were coming.  
Royal Dragoneer   194 
 At last, toward dawn, we came in over the lake to give ourselves 
an entrance clear of Goblins and their flinging boulders. As we 
approached, I saw twelve of dragons stretched out around the 
pavilions with healers working over them to tend bro ken wings and 
other injuries. A dozen downed dragons and riders was a heavy battle 
toll. 
As Farean’s talons hit the ground, we narrowly missed being hit by 
another Goblin missile.  
I dismounted and sought out Authand while Farean lapped water 
from the lake.  Portions of the wall had crumbled, but it still repelled 
our invaders. I doubted the General’s Dragoneers would reach us for 
another six hours. And the wall might not hold that long.  
I found Authand in his office with most of the other instructors. 
Floria n and a second year I didn’t recognize stood guard at the door.  
"What are you doing back?" She taunted. "Did it get too scary out 
there, and you came running back to safety?"  
"That doesn’t even make sense," I responded. "If I was looking 
for safety, why wo uld I return to a battle? This has got to be the least 
safe place in all of Darneta right now." I took a step forward, but 
Florian pulled her short sword and blocked my path. Belatedly, the 
other girl, Zimaelan according to the name badge on her leathers, 
pulled hers as well.  
"The Colonel said no one was allowed in. And I’m certainly not 
going to let a coward like you waste his time."  
I pulled my own sword from its sheath. "That’s the last time you 
insult me. Get out of my way, or I will remove you myself."  I 
couldn’t take the both of them, but I was hoping Zimaelan would 
bail. Or maybe even help me.  
Florian snarled and tightened her grip, her face contorting in a way 
that confirmed the orc heritage I had long suspected. We eyed each 
other, waiting to see if  the other would make the first move.  
"Kalia? What are you doing here? Get your butt in here." Both of 
our heads snapped at the sound of Authand’s voice. "What in the 
195  Ash Rober ts 
 ancestors’ name are you both doing with your swords out? Put them 
away. And Kalia, why ar en’t you inside already?"  
I sheathed my sword as I pushed past Florian who also hurried to 
comply. I barely made it through the doorway before Authand 
slammed it behind me.  
"What are you doing back? Not that I don’t remember you 
disobeyed a direct order. I  do. But since you did, I was hoping you’d 
accomplish something worthwhile for my troubles. Instead, you’re 
back her with no help to show for it," He punched the wall with his 
hook. It embedded a full three inches into the wood. He pulled but 
the harness t hat attached the device to his arm came loose instead, 
leaving the straps dangling next to my head.  
I flinched away from it. The contraption seemed even more 
intimidating when it was disembodied from him.  
He moved me aside with his stump and pulled at it w ith his good 
hand. "Well?" He wrestled with his hook. "Answer me, dammit."  
"I did accomplish something," I said. "I made it there just before 
dark. The General and the others should be here in about six hours."  
"Dragon dung!" The hook came free from the wa ll. He held it 
under his arm and cleaned the debris from it before reattaching it. 
"No one can fly that fast without killing their dragon. And Korth 
says Farean is currently down by the lake alive and well. Don’t lie to 
me, girl. If we’re all going to die here, I need to know it."  
"Maybe she’s just faster than your fat old dragon." Outside Korth 
roared. I’d like to see you do half of what I can"," Farean shot back at an 
insult I couldn’t hear.  
Authand’s eyes narrowed. His stare seemed to crawl inside my 
brain and claw at the soft tissue. I’d be seeing those eyes in my 
nightmares. "You’re telling me you flew all night and beat an 
experienced Dragoneer force, with some of the fastest dragons in the 
seven kingdoms, back here by six hours?"  
"I—Yes," I said lamel y. Now I was caught between explaining my 
magic or digging myself into a deeper hole.  
Royal Dragoneer   196 
 Thankfully, I was saved from having to make that decision by 
Lewon bursting through the door. "Calen said you called for me, 
sir?" 
He stopped short when he saw me standin g there. It was always 
awkward between us now. But then he turned to Authand, waiting 
for orders.  
Authand looked at me, calculating, weighing my worth and the 
possibility that what I was claiming was the truth.  
"Kalia claims she and Farean made it to Verlo  and returned in one 
night, and that reinforcements are on their way."  
"That’s not possible," Lewon said. "No one is that fast."  
"That’s what I said," Authand agreed.  
"What could it possibly gain me to lie about this?" I asked 
earnestly, eyeing Lewon, remi nding him with my eyes that we’d both 
seen how Farean could fly when we’d escaped Roland. And maybe it 
would occur to him that I could heal her fatigue.  
"Well, it’s highly unlikely," Lewon said, caving a little. "But 
technically possible."  
"I can’t stake t he camp’s survival on an unlikely possibility," 
Authand said. "But it really doesn’t matter. We don’t have six hours. 
The wall will fall before then. We need to evacuate the injured 
through the tunnel. I will not leave Dragons here to be Goblin meat."  
Lewo n shook his head. "The entire camp is surrounded, except on 
the lakeside, sir. We come out of those tunnels, and the greyskins will 
be waiting for us."  
"We need a distraction," I said.  
"Farean seems pretty good at catching those rocks." Authand 
pointed out  the window to where my dragon had taken to the sky 
without me. As we watched, she caught another of the airborne 
boulders and dropped it back over the wall. "You and she could 
concentrate a barrage surrounding the tunnel exit. It might scare 
them off long  enough for an escape effort."  
I swallowed. The Colonel must be very desperate to defy the order 
from my father to keep me out of harm’s way. Then again, the 
197  Ash Rober ts 
 General had ignored it too. Desperate times called for desperate 
measures.  
"We can do it, sir," I said. "We won’t let you down."  
"Calen and I will help," Lewon said. I suspected he was offering so 
he could keep an eye on me, rather than out of any altruistic feelings, 
but I’d take it.  
Farean and I waited for Lewon to be ready before taking to the 
air. We would have to time our efforts precisely once we reached the 
tunnel exit leading into the forest, but Calen and Farean could mind -
speak to one another, so that would help. The thought crossed my 
mind to "miss" one of the rocks that would be lobbed at th em. But 
Father taught me to never stoop to the level of my enemies.  
Once in the air, Farean quickly caught a rock. The Goblins seemed 
to have caught on to our tactics, however, and followed with a volley 
of arrows. Farean dropped the rock to maneuver aroun d the 
onslaught, and it fell into the camp, sending those below running. It 
had almost hit Florian, and I had no doubt she’d think it had been 
intentional.  
Farean pulled out of her spin beyond the range of the archers. 
She’d managed to protect her wings an d underbelly, but a few arrows 
had lodged between her scales.  
I reached down, pulling them out and sent a quick shot of healing 
energy through her.  
We circled above the camp assessing the situation.  
Lewon and Calen weren’t having any more luck catching roc ks 
than we were. The Goblins were now ignoring us and focusing on 
bringing down the last vestiges of the crumbling wall. Our original 
plan wasn’t going to work.  
"We have to change  the plan". I told Farean. " Rocks  aren’t  going to work,  
but we have to pull the Goblins  away from the tunnel. " 
"Capture  the flag". Farean said, sending images of the game flashing 
in my head.  
"Oh, you’re  brilliant,  "I praised her."  Let’s go." "And be sure to tell Calen  
what we’re up to." 
Royal Dragoneer   198 
 Selkerdrim hadn’t let us onto the playing fi eld since we lost the 
game that first day, but that hadn’t kept Farean and I from practicing 
by ourselves.  
We flew up high, above any possible attack, then wide around the 
battle. I heard Florian’s shrill voice as we retreated. The words were 
lost to the w ind, but I guessed her message. She thought I was 
running away from the battle. Which I was, sort of. But only for a 
moment.  
Once Farean and I were well away from the action, we dove 
beneath the trees and made for the rear flank nearest the tunnel exit. 
Capture the flag was a game of stealth. And if we’d been allowed to 
play, the Blues would have discovered that Farean could navigate the 
forest without disturbing a single twig. But the game was more than 
stealth. It was also about cunning strategy. Lewon ha d taught us that 
the hard way, showing us his team flag, supposedly unguarded and 
easy pickings. He’s lured us to an ambush we’d never seen coming. 
And that’s exactly what we hoped to do to the Goblins.  
"Calen  and Lewon  are ready", Farean said. " They’ve  found a clearing  that 
will work,  and Calen  has shown  me where it is." 
"Then let’s go," I told her.  
She flew forward and we came upon the Goblins rear line near the 
tunnel exit. It was hidden, so they didn’t know it was there. And 
thankfully, they’d left gaps  between each soldier, so we took 
advantage of that.  
Farean picked off the first before we’d even been spotted, heaving 
him in the air to land with a discernable crunch.  
The second Goblin saw us at the last second. She twisted just out 
of Farean’s reach an d pulled her sword. I pulled out my own as we 
pivoted around a branch. We came at her again upside down. The 
Goblin’s thrust was awkward, our orientation seeming to throw her 
off. I had no such problems, this being one of the few things I’d 
practiced that I was actually good at.  
I parried her thrust and used her momentum against her. Her 
blade came free of her hands and slammed into her face. Blood 
199  Ash Rober ts 
 gushed from her nose. A cry escaped her lips but fell short. I looked 
behind to see Farean’s tail tinged in bl ood and the warrior slumping 
to the ground.  
The next few gave us little problem. With the rear guards 
dispatched, our task became more difficult as the Goblin soldiers 
came at us in clustered groups, turning away from the camp wall and 
pushing toward us fo r their turn in the fray. Which was exactly what 
we’d hoped for.  
"Pull back," I told Farean. " It’s time to offer them our flag." 
Farean flew away into the forest, just beyond sight of the 
encroaching Goblins, and I grabbed one of the arrows I’d pulled 
from  between her scales earlier.  
"Couldn’t  you just pretend? " I begged her, looking at the sharp tip of 
the arrow.  
"They’ll  suspect  a trap if they don’t smell my blood,  "she said. " Now do it!" 
"You know you can heal me afterwards. " 
I raised my fist, clutching the arrow, and plunged it into the joint 
where her right wing met her body.  
She cried out, and flapped the wing, quivering with pain.  
"I’m sorry. I’m so sorry," I told her as her injured wing dropped 
limply to her side.  
Three Goblins came charging at us, t heir dark eyes taking in the 
scene —a dragon who had just killed numerous of their brethren, 
suddenly at their mercy with a grounding injury. I saw them all raise 
their snouts in unison, sniffing at my dragon’s lifeblood.  
Farean whirled, running awkwardly, dragging her wing behind her. 
I looked back to see her whacking Goblins aside with her tail, but 
they were gaining on us and there were more coming. I could see the 
bloodlust and hunger in their eyes. There was nothing a Goblin loved 
more than an injured, helpless, dragon.  
Farean crashed through the underbrush, galloping between trees 
and through bushes. And I held on to her for dear life, but I was 
doing more than that. I had my hands on her wing joint, sending 
healing energy into her as fast and hard as I  could.  
Royal Dragoneer   200 
 And then the forest opened up into a large clearing, full of tall 
yellow grasses and blue meadow flowers, like a place you’d expect to 
find a unicorn, not stop to face your inevitable death.  
Farean ran -wobbled to the far end of the clearing and tur ned to 
face the Goblin onslaught.  
Goblins filled the meadow, charging at us in a huge mob.  
And then the air was full of dragons, dropping from the trees like 
rabid stones. Every uninured Dragon and rider that wasn’t helping 
with the evacuation had fled the  camp and come here to our ambush.  
Calen and Lewon took out a Goblin just as he raised an ax to us.  
No one else even got close.  
"Pull out the arrow, " Farean said, and I looked down to see that her 
joint wound was already healing, forming scar tissue that h ad almost 
pushed the arrow out.  
I grabbed it and tugged it the rest of the way, happy to hear her 
sigh with relief.  
The pretty yellow meadow grass and blue flowers were now 
strewn with Goblin blood and corpses.  
"The Goblins just breached the camp wall," Le won said, landing 
next to us. "But Florian’s Masta reports that the evacuees are out of 
the tunnel and all headed to safety thanks to your quick thinking and 
Farean’s acting skills. Good plan," he said, giving me a nod of 
grudging respect.  
"Actually, it wa s your plan," I pointed out. "I just used it better."  
 
 
 
We were all congratulating ourselves on a clean victory, when I 
noticed a dragon silhouette in the sky flying towards us. The Colonel 
was easily reco gnizable on his huge dragon, but Korth wasn’t flying 
well at all. He’s been hit by multiple arrows, and there were visible 
tears in his wings.  
The Orange dragon howled and pitched to the right. Broken 
harness straps dangled uselessly, and Authand held on f or dear life 
with his one hand. Then Korth pitched the other way suddenly, and 
Authand lost his grip.  
The Colonel tumbled free of his dragon.  
Korth snatched at his rider, trying to catch him, but with his wing 
askew he missed. Korth shrieked with fury and tried again but 
couldn’t keep up with Authand’s free fall.  
"Farean," I shouted and pointed. Without looking, she took off 
towards the Colonel. Her wings pounded against the air, pushing us 
even faster than when we had ridden the great air current. The wind  
hurt my face but still we pushed onward, the gap between us and him 
closing with each beat.  
Her claws glanced off his armor before she snagged his arm. His 
momentum fought against ours and I could hear the pop of his 
shoulder coming free of its socket fro m my perch. His scream was 
echoed by Korth who coasted into the meadow, joining the other 
Dragoneers.  
There must have been one lone Goblin left in the woods —an 
archer who hadn’t fallen for our trap or run for the camp wall. 
Unfortunately, he was also a ver y good shot.  
Royal Dragoneer   202 
 Slowed from the Colonel’s added weight, Farean couldn’t dodge 
his arrow, and it struck her just below her heart.  
"Farean! " I cried out, clutching at my chest, feeling the sharp pain 
as if the arrow had pierced me.  
She glided out of the archer’ s range, taking us over the lake where 
no Goblins dared go.  
Below us, the Colonel swung in the wind, moaning on the edge of 
consciousness. Somewhere behind us in the clearing, Korth hissed 
and screeched for his injured rider. I calculated the distance. We were 
losing too much altitude to make it back there.  
"He’s too heavy, " Farean complained, pain tinging her voice. " I’m 
going to drop him." 
"No, you’re  not", I said, but I could feel her straining not to lose her 
grip. Boy, wouldn’t we be the talk of the Dr agoneers for years to 
come if we dropped the Colonel on his head from three hundred feet 
up. We’d never live that down.  
I had to do something, so I unhooked my harness. My hands 
shook as they manipulated the oiled buckles. Thoughts of falling 
from Farean’s  back filled my head, but I pushed them aside.  
I loosened the final buckle. For the first time in months of flying, 
nothing held me to Farean’s back. I inched towards her chest, making 
sure of each handhold before letting go of the other. My feet found 
her foreleg. I balanced myself on her extended limb while I crouched 
to grab at her with my arms.  
She hit a pocket of air and dropped suddenly, pitching me 
forward. Thankfully, my waving arms caught the same leg I had been 
standing on. I struggled to regain m y perch, one flailing foot 
knocking the Colonel in the head.  
The impact jostled him to semi -consciousness. His eyes went wide 
when he looked up and saw me dangling above him on Farean’s leg, 
both of us hundreds of feet in the air.  
"Uh, hi," I said.  
"Kalia,  what are you doing?" he said, his words slurred a little. 
"Get back in your harness."  
203  Ash Rober ts 
 "Grab my hand," I said, reaching out for him. I knew it was his 
good arm that had been dislocated when Farean caught him. He was 
going to have to reach up with his hook and that might get painful 
for me.  
"I can’t do that," he said, realizing the same thing.  
"If you don’t, Farean is going to drop you," I said. I could see her 
talons slipping loose. He must have been able to feel it.  
"She can drop me over the lake," he said . "From this height, there 
is a good probability I would live."  
"I need more than a good probability," I said, shaking my open 
hand at him. "My hand will heal."  
"Okay," he nodded. "On the count of three."  
"One," I said. "Two. Three."  
I reached down, and he  thrust up, his hook catching over most of 
my fingers, but the point dug into my pinky and tore through it.  
I didn’t scream or make a noise. If Farean could fly with an arrow 
in her chest, I could handle a little hook in the pinky.  
I yanked the Colonel up with all my strength, pain shooting 
through my hand, arm and shoulder. But he was up, wobbling on her 
leg joint next to me.  
I yanked my hand back, pulling his hook from my flesh, and we 
both scrambled into the one -person harness. It was awkward and 
tight, but he got us both tied in.  
"Help me now", Farean said, her voice sounding weird and weak.  
I took a deep breath. I’d wanted to keep my power a secret, but 
my dragon needed me. I closed my eyes and called the power forth. I 
heard Authand gasp when my hands began to glow. With my pulsing 
hands on Farean’s back ridge, I send my energy in looking for the 
arrow in her chest. I should be able to push it out, just like I had the 
one I’d jammed into her wing joint. But this one was much deeper, 
and it was bleeding so much more.  
Blood dripping from the wound whipped upwards on the wind, 
splattering my face.  
Royal Dragoneer   204 
 But I could feel the broken shaft pushing away from her and 
poking above her scales. I paused my healing long enough to lean 
over her neck and feel for it with my  fingers.  
The arrow head came loose from the wound and I grabbed it, 
tossing it away. Farean took a few tentative flaps, but we continued 
to lose altitude.  
"She can’t carry two riders," Authand said. "Most dragons can’t."  
"The shore is not too far," I told  him. "She can make it."  
"I can make it", Farean agreed.  
"I’m not crash -landing on your little dragon," The Colonel said 
stubbornly, untying the harness ropes.  
"What are you —" he was jumping before I could finish my 
sentence, his splash dousing me as he hi t the lake with a smack.  
Well, he’d only had to drop a few feet, and if anyone could swim 
to shore with a dislocated shoulder, the Colonel could.  
I looked back to make sure he was okay, and he waved his hook at 
me. 
"Farean,  make sure Korth  knows  where his rider is. "I suggested.  
"I already  have", she said, " he’s leading  a rescue  team to the beach. " 
My foot dragged in the water as Farean skimmed over the surface.  
"Up, "I encouraged her, now that we’d gotten rid of all the extra 
weight.  
She pulled up and flew  to the lakeshore easily, landing in the soft 
sand.  
"I could have made it with him", she said indignantly. " He didn’t  need to 
jump. " 
"I know", I said, rubbing her between the ears like she loved.  
Suddenly, the concussion of an explosion cracked the sky, co ming 
from the direction of the camp. The ground rumbled and shook 
under our feet.  
"What  was that?" I asked, as Farean leapt into the sky.  
We flew cautiously toward the direction of that awful sound, 
Farean staying high enough that nothing could hit us. As we flew 
over the camp, I saw the smoking crater where a section of the north 
205  Ash Rober ts 
 wall had once been. The Goblins were already inside, but they  must 
have found a stash of firerock and were going to use it to level the 
camp and everything in it.  
The sky above us darkened, and I looked up to see a swarm of red 
dragons descending through the clouds toward the camp, their 
archers spitting arrows. The  Dragoneers had arrived. But the Goblins 
still had the firerock. I didn’t want to imagine what one of those 
stones could do to a dragon. Still, two could play at that game. I had 
a piece of the explosive rock myself. I’d gotten so distracted that day 
with Lewon that I’d never reported its existence.  
Taking advantage of the momentary distraction, Farean and I flew 
towards our salvation. We skimmed the surface of the water to the 
beach. I started unfastening the buckles in preparation of landing 
while keeping  an eye out.  
Unfortunately, A Goblin lookout spotted us. I could see him 
waving his arms and shouting at his compatriots.  
"Farean,  if we fly over, can you grab it?" 
"Vernis  says that if my talons  scratch  it, it will ignite. " 
"Damn, " I said, stealing Authan d’s favorite epithet. Most of the 
Goblin archers were engaged with the Dragoneers. Even if they saw 
us, they wouldn’t be able to maintain continuous fire towards the 
beach. We twisted away and circled back. "Well, it’s about time I 
caught that glove."  
We f einted a few times to get a good feel for the rhythm of their 
shooting. There was a ten second gap between the end of one volley 
and the beginning of the next. Ten seconds wasn’t much. Farean 
would have to be traveling at full speed while I tried to pry a rock out 
of the dirt from her back. To make matters worse, in order to get 
into position, she would have to rotate at the last minute, leaving me 
completely exposed to errant arrows.  
I waited for another volley to pass. How many arrows had they 
brought wit h them. Surely, they’d have to run out soon.  
The archers took their usual pause, and we dove from our position 
in the trees. We sped for the red veined rock glittering in the filtered 
Royal Dragoneer   206 
 sunlight, each powerful beat of Farean’s wings propelling us towards 
the ground. I breathed deeply, forcing myself to relax.  
Three seconds until the next arrow volley.  
Two seconds.  
Farean flipped upside.  
One second.  
I extended my arms over my head towards the ground. Or was it 
under my head?  
My fingers touched the rock. For a breath, I thought I’d missed it, 
but it came free of the ground and into my hands as Farean 
completed her rotation.  
Another beat of her wings pushed us away.  
An arrow brushed past my face, just kissing my skin.  
I put my hand to the wound and nearly dropped  the stone. I 
tucked the head -sized rock under my arm and then felt for the cut 
again, my fingers coming away wet with blood. But it was only a 
small wound. We’d been damn lucky.  
Farean rose back above the trees, well beyond the range of the 
archers. The b attle had become a stalemate. Dragonback archers 
were keeping the Goblins from their war machine, but likewise, they 
were keeping us from getting close enough to do real damage.  
I searched for Lewon and Calen in the crowd of Dragoneers, but I 
didn’t see th em anywhere. Perhaps they were with the Colonel and 
the injured wherever they were hiding. When I asked Farean if she 
could locate Calen, she shook her head and flashed me a jumbled 
image of Lewon and Calen fighting alongside Goblins.  
"What  was that?" I as ked her, confused.  
"Don’t  know", she said. " I lost him." 
Could Dragons block one another? And if so, what were Lewon 
and Calen up to? Lewon was a jerk who had sold me to a gangster to 
pay his debts, but he wouldn’t side with the enemy over his own 
kind, wo uld he? Goblins had massacred his village. He’d told me that. 
Of course, it could have been a lie.  
207  Ash Rober ts 
 I pushed those thoughts aside and looked for the General instead. 
She was easy to find on the back of her great mountain of a dragon. 
I’d heard rumors , but they hadn’t done the huge creature justice. 
Flarnor made Korth look like a baby. If the Orange dragon flew in 
front of the sun, I was sure it would plunge the day into darkness. 
How did something that big even get off the ground?  
"Sheer force of will ," The General shouted as they closed the 
distance between us. "I trust this isn’t a social call."  
I shook my head and held up the firerock.  
She recoiled from it before regaining his composure. "Aren’t you 
the resourceful one?" They flew even closer, and u sing dragon -
thought to keep from being overheard, we formulated a plan.  
The General and her dragon broke away, and two greens came up 
to escort us. They were larger than Calen, but not half as large as 
Flarnor or even Korth. We had to be a sight, with our mismatched 
dragons, but no other Blue in the fleet was as agile as Farean.  
The Red -mounted archers focused on the Goblin rangers. 
Meanwhile, the more massive Oranges, replete with their bronze 
belly armor, created a barrier the Goblin arrows simply bounced  off 
of. The other Blues and Greens harried the ground forces from the 
flanks.  
With all the attention on the archers, the Goblin’s trebuchet’s 
platoon was left unmolested. Realizing this, they resumed their work 
loading firerock into the bucket. Aimed at e ither the Dragoneers or 
the camp, the damage would be devastating.  
And it was my job to keep that from happening. I looked from left 
to right, nodding to each rider in turn. We dove towards our target. 
The two Greens crisscrossed in front of me, providing cover for me 
while simultaneously making themselves harder to hit.  
I led from the rear of the formation, guiding Farean with nudges 
from my feet. These directions were passed to the other two via the 
dragons’ psychic communication. Together, we moved as if  a single 
organism.  
Royal Dragoneer   208 
 The trebuchet team noticed us and doubled their efforts to 
prepare the machine. The gap between us continued to close. I 
needed to get within fifty feet to accurately hit either the weapon or 
its ammunition. Closer than that, though, an d we would be caught in 
the explosion.  
The Greens parted, leaving us unprotected but clear to take the 
shot. The Goblin Corporal looked up, her mouth open. The ruse had 
worked; they hadn’t noticed Farean or my deadly cargo at all.  
Our escort gone, we banke d, allowing me an unencumbered view 
of the target. I could make out the individual fibers of the ropes 
holding it together. I shook my head. That level of detail shouldn’t be 
visible from this distance. I set the mystery aside for now. If I missed 
now, the re would be no second chance.  
I aimed for the heart of the machine, where I had the least chance 
of missing it entirely. With my newly enhanced vision, I couldn’t tell, 
but we seemed to be closer than I had wanted. There was nothing to 
be done for it now, and I lobbed the firerock at the trebuchet. No 
sooner than it cleared my hands and Farean banked and beat 
furiously away.  
I heard the explosion behind us and turned to look just as the 
shockwave hit us. The force completely overpowered Farean and we 
went t umbling head over tail. The turbulence passed but not before 
forcing us into an oak. I felt the crack of her wing bone though our 
bond before I heard the snap with my ears.  
Even though it wasn’t mine, the pain dulled my senses. I knew I 
needed to get out t here and heal the break, but an aching pain in my 
chest seeped my energy and sapped my will. I looked down, 
expecting to be injured but my harness was intact. Something was 
wrong, but I couldn’t figure out what because I was suddenly 
overwhelmed with exhau stion.  
Four green claws descended in front of us, the owner of each pair 
picking a side. The dragon on the right grabbed gingerly at the 
broken wing, taking care to support it in front of the break. The 
dragon on the left hooked on to the other side a mome nt later.  
209  Ash Rober ts 
 Farean seemed to be as affected by the explosion as I and hung 
limply in their embrace.  

 
 
 
The dragons lowered us to the ground with practiced ease. Hands 
unbuckled my harness and pulled me up from  my prone position 
over Farean’s neck ridge. They lifted me off her back and walked me 
around to her broken wing.  
In an instant, the fog and fatigue lifted. My dragon was hurt. I 
needed to do something.  
The healer, Tulowa pushed his way through the crowd a nd 
ordered the bystanders to help straighten Farean’s wing. As they 
worked, he shook his head and muttered, "It’s a bad break. She may 
not fly again."  
I couldn’t accept that. Farean would never accept that. She was 
born to fly. And I certainly wouldn’t acc ept that prognosis if there 
was something I could do that would guarantee her recovery.  
I pulled free of the Green riders holding me up, the same 
Dragoneers who had escorted me on the attack against the trebuchet. 
I ran to Farean’s side. The healer shouted , and his helpers grabbed at 
me. 
"Leave her be!" Authand shouted, the crowd parting for him. 
"That’s her dragon." His dislocated arm hung in a sling but, 
otherwise, he seemed to be no worse for our rescue.  
"She has no medical training," Tulowa said. He cro ssed his arms 
and squared off against the Colonel. "Her proximity will only make 
things worse."  
"Or it could comfort her dragon." Authand nodded at the men 
trying to straighter her wing as Farean writhed in agony.  
"Fine."  Tulowa nodded at his helpers, and they let me go.  
Royal Dragoneer   212 
 I called forth the magic even as I ran to her. Golden sparks flew 
from the ends of my fingertips into the leathery skin that covered her 
wing. Then I was by her side, kneeling at the break and making 
physi cal contact. The crowd grew quiet as they watched me heal my 
dragon. I could feel the bone knit back together under my hands. 
Satisfied the wing was repaired, I sat back and panted.  
"That should do it, dear. Give it a try."  
She made a halfhearted motion wi th it but otherwise continued to 
languish on the ground. I scratched at the persistent itch I’d had since 
the explosion while I tried to get her to respond.  
I examined her body but didn’t see anything wrong until I noticed 
a patch of red seeping from benea th her.  
"Help me roll her over," I shouted over my shoulder. I didn’t wait 
but started pushing at her side. "Turn on your side," I begged her.  
Tulowa’s assistants stood beside me, two on each side, and helped. 
Even the doctor himself joined the effort.  
Farean’s feeble attempts slowed and more of the Dragoneers 
joined us. Authand pressed his back against her side and pushed. 
Esgeril forced herself through the crowd and slid between the medic 
and me, placing her small hand over mine. She gave me a brief smile  
before turning to the attention at hand.  
Slowly, we rolled Farean over to her side. Splinters from the 
trebuchet laced her stomach and chest, but that wasn’t the problem. 
A section of the mast, too large to be considered a splinter, 
protruded from her che st. As thick as my arm, it had driven through 
her scales and dangerously close to her heart.  
I grabbed it with both hands and yanked. It didn’t give. I put my 
hands higher on it for leverage, ready to try again.  
Tulowa grabbed my hands and shook his head. "If you remove it, 
she will bleed out."  
"I can heal her." I said.  
"Maybe," he said. "But if the beam has pierced her heart, she will 
be dead before your magic even starts."  
213  Ash Rober ts 
 Tears welled in my eyes. "But she’ll die if I don’t." I choked back a 
sob. "What ca n I do?"  
Esgeril spoke in her, sweet, lilting southlands accent. "What if we 
pull it out slowly? She could she heal Farean’s body right behind us."  
I looked to the doctor. He scratched at his chin before speaking. 
"That could work. But you’ll have to be fa st." 
The magic surged back to my hands. "Then what are we waiting 
for?" Sparks danced from my fingertips above Farean’s hide. I 
pressed against her flesh. The faint heart beat shocked me. Where 
was the strong thrumming that soothed me to sleep on so many 
nights?  
Tulowa gripped the shaft near where it entered her. The largest of 
his assistants grabbed hold of the remainder. A hand touched my 
shoulder. I spared a glance to see Esgeril standing behind me, 
offering support.  
As they pulled, I willed the magic de ep into her body. They pulled 
slowly, inch by inch, but I still wasn’t healing her fast enough. Blood 
seeped and then gushed out of her body. I pressed harder. The 
wound and my hands grew hot.  
The broken trebuchet piece came free. I stuck my hand in the 
opening it produced, begging the blood to stop pouring out of her. 
Unbidden, I thought of Theron and how I’d run and hid in my room 
when he slaughtered his pigs. He wouldn’t recognize that sheltered 
and afraid girl kneeling here covered in dragon’s blood.  
The magic burned through me. Burning flesh filled my nostrils 
and I realized with a start that it was my own. The blood seemed to 
be slowing, but I couldn’t hear Farean anymore. After nearly a year of 
her taking up residence in my head, she was gone.  
"Come  on, don’t give up. "Tears streaked the dirt and blood that 
plastered my face. Behind me, Esgeril gripped my shoulder tighter. 
The voices of the Elves and dragons around us muffled into 
nothingness. My vision narrowed. Nothing existed but the blue 
dragon bef ore me, my hands deep in her body and Esgeril’s on mine.  
Royal Dragoneer   214 
 The magic flagged, but I willed it forward. Esgeril supported my 
weight now to keep me from collapsing. While there was still life in 
my body, I would move it into Farean’s.  
Her breathing became shallow. So shallow, in fact, that I couldn’t 
even see her chest move. Her heart was so faint that I couldn’t feel 
the beating either.  
"It’s over." A voice said.  
I shook my head. What was over?  
Tulowa’s hands shook me and pulled me from Farean.  
"She’s dead ," he said. "You did all you could. But the wound was 
too great."  
"No!" I screamed. I tried to break free from his grip, but he held 
me tight. I pounded my fists against his chest. "She’s not dead. I can 
still heal her."  
"No, you can’t." His voice grew gru ff. "Stop being hysterical and 
face the facts." He dug his fingers into my shoulder. Wincing, I 
dropped to the ground.  
A knife appeared before me, gripped by Esgeril’s thin, delicate 
hand and pointed at his abdomen. "You take your hands off her right 
now, or I will gut you in front of everybody."  
He removed his grip, and backed away from the knife, nearly 
tripping over a tuft of grass in the haste of his escape.  
Esgeril swung the knife from side to side. "Nobody comes near 
her, you hear me? You let her be. She’s as much a Dragoneer as 
anyone here. She’s earned the right to grieve as she needs." Nobody 
approached, but they didn’t leave either.  
I scampered back to Farean’s side, and tried to call forth the magic 
again, but it wouldn’t come. "No. You can’t be d ead!" I beat against 
her side with my fists. I closed my eyes and begged all the gods for 
her to come back. She just lay there. "Vernis," I whispered. "I don’t 
know who you are, but I know you’ve been helping us. Help us 
now." I didn’t know how Vernis spok e to Farean, but he wasn’t 
saying anything to me.  
215  Ash Rober ts 
 I pressed my hands against the wound again. "Come on, you 
stupid magic. Don’t fail me when I really need you." I felt a slight 
tingling in my palms and opened my eyes to see them glowing. Barely 
noticeable,  but there. I urged the golden healing light into her body. 
The crowd murmured behind me, but nobody dared approach 
Esgeril’s knife.  
I gave Farean what feeble magic I could. Salty tears ran down my 
face and onto my blood -soaked hands. The color glowing thr ough 
me changed hue. It was still golden, but richer, more alive somehow. 
"Come on, Farean. Wake up. I need you. I didn’t want you at first, 
but now I can’t live without you."  
The glowing surged. The light burned my eyes. I tried to look 
away, but it was e verywhere. Every nerve in my body screamed and 
pain overtook me. An invisible forced pushed me from her. My head 
hit the dirt, the pain and light continuing to wash over me until that 
was all that existed.  
A dragon roared.  
I recognized the sound.  
Farean ro ared, her voice strong and powerful.  
Joy filled my heart, threatening to burst it.  
Then everything went dark.  

 
 
 
I opened my eyes to find myself in yet another healer’s 
whitewashed stone room. By the light, it ap peared to be late morning. 
Bandages covered my hands, and I felt like a dragon had sat on me. I 
pushed up to sit but found more pain instead. A moan escaped my 
lips. 
Fabric rustled behind me and Esgeril’s face filled my field of 
vision. "You’re awake," she  said. "I’ll go tell the doctor." She scurried 
to the flap at the far end but stopped. She returned and put her hand 
over mine. Or at least over the bandages.  
She planted a kiss on my lips and bounded away. "You’re awake," 
she repeated, her voice noticeabl y higher, before disappearing 
outside. " Okay,  that was weird. " 
"Farean? " I reached out with my mind.  
No response came.  
A wave of incredible grief hit me. After everything I’d done, I’d 
failed. She was gone, and I’d forever be alone. " I’m sorry, Farean.  "I 
exhaled,"  "feeling my throat fill with tears.  
"Hey, I was sleeping ". Her rumbling voice filled my head with more 
than just a touch of irritation.  
"But you were dead". 
"Yes. And you saved me. "She said, as if explaining something to a 
small child. " That’s  what we do. We save each other. "This time her words 
came with warmth. I sent her an image of me hugging her tightly, 
nuzzling against her snout. She returned with an image of me kissing 
Esgeril instead.  
I blushed, even though nobody else could know what sh e’d 
thought to me. " I thought  you were asleep. " 
Royal Dragoneer   218 
 "Aye, she should be. Let yer beast rest." Tulowa said as he entered 
the room, followed by Esgeril, Authand, and General. He turned to 
his entourage, "Since I can’t keep you all out of here while I see my 
patient, you will stand back and not interfere. I assume I have your 
permission to go near her?" He glowered at Esgeril.  
She nodded sheepishly while the other two looked on the 
exchange with bemused expressions.  
"I’m supposed  to let you rest now"," I told Fare an. "But I’ll see you when 
they let me out of here. "Warmth and happiness filled my heart at the 
thought.  
Tulowa came to my side and unwrapped the gauze that covered 
my hands, then examined them. He applied a cream after that, and I 
flinched as the ointmen t stung the sensitive flesh.  
"That’s a good sign. They should heal nicely." He nodded to 
himself and applied new bandages. He listened to my heart and lungs 
and all the other pointless tests that healers subject their patients to. 
"You’re on bed rest for a  sevenday and may have a miserable couple 
days, but you’ll fully recover."  
I thanked him, and he said goodbye, giving Esgeril one final glare 
before leaving.  
The others were silent at first. I understood that. What do you say 
to the person who brought some body back from the dead? Authand 
was the first to speak.  
"You’ve gotten yourself in a fair amount of trouble, Princess 
Kalia. You disobeyed direct orders from both myself and General 
Lutania and put yourself in mortal danger. And you didn’t tell 
anybody th at you are a nestorphen."  
"A what?" I interrupted.  
He frowned at me. "A nestorphen. Someone with healing magic. 
It manifests in less than one in a thousand of us and almost never 
outside of Dragoneer families. If we had known, we would have 
approached your  training differently. Not that anyone could have 
taught you the stunt you pulled." He shook his head. "Continuing the 
219  Ash Rober ts 
 list of your infractions, you interrupt your leaders, and you destroyed 
half my camp." He raised his arms with an exasperated sigh.  
"On t he flip side, Lutania said, "you brought help faster than 
anyone else could have and almost singlehandedly defeated an entire 
legion of Goblin soldiers. I’d say that being restricted to quarters for 
a sevenday is sufficient punishment."  
Behind them, Esgeri l giggled.  
Authand turned and stared at her. "Now, I know we make certain 
allowances for Dragoneers in relationships, but if you pull a knife on 
a commanding officer again, it will be the Caves for you. 
Understand?"  
She swallowed and nodded before squeakin g out an affirmative. 
"Yes, sir."  
Authand’s words didn’t make any sense. Who was Esgeril seeing? 
It must have happened while we weren’t speaking, but I hadn’t 
noticed her with anyone. The thought that she was dating someone 
bothered me more than I thought it should. I pushed the question 
aside for now. I had a sea of others to ask.  
"Sir?" I brought everyone’s attention back to me. "Will I still be 
considered for the Dragon Run?"  
Authand deflated a little. "I didn’t want to tell you this. I thought 
you would  fail on your own merits, but that seems unlikely now." He 
bit his lip. I’d never seen him at a loss for words before. "Your father 
forbids you from competing in the Run."  
I wanted to scream. I wasn’t sure who I was more angry —him or 
Father. Probably both.  I’d never be taken seriously as a Dragoneer if 
I continued to get special treatment.  
There was a commotion behind the door, and it swung open. I 
caught a brief glimpse as Dragoneers in brown and my father’s 
guards in green stared each other down. Father’s  frame then blocked 
the view as he entered, my mother gliding in behind him.  
Lutania gave them a quick bow at the waist before exiting into the 
hallway where I could hear him scolding his Dragoneers, "Stand 
Royal Dragoneer   220 
 down, you morons. When I said let no one in, that  did not include 
the king." The door closed behind him.  
Seeing me, Mother’s composure fled, and she ran to my side, 
giving me a gentle hug.  
It was nice to feel her arms around me again, but I pulled away, 
unsure of how I felt about my parents anymore. Why were they here? 
They had abandoned me. What did they want now? To continue 
controlling me while holding me at arm’s length?  
"You sent me away," I said looking my father in the eyes. "But you 
won’t let me live the life you’ve sent me to fully. Instead, you block 
me at every turn, and make me look like a coward to my peers. Is that 
what you want?"  
He returned my glare; his features hardening into a look that 
almost always preceded a lecture. But then he sighed. "You’re right, 
Kalia. I handled this entire situ ation badly. Please forgive me."  
I couldn’t speak. In sixteen summers, I’d never heard him 
apologize to anyone. I glanced at my mother, and she nodded at me, 
tears glistening at the corners of her eyes. "I’m sorry too," she said, 
softly.  
I was still speech less, so I just nodded and looked down at my 
bandaged hands. Was this real? Where they truly going to let me live 
a Dragoneer’s life? Or was this all just for show and politics?  
My father turned to Authand. "Has she qualified for a position in 
the race?" H e asked.  
"She lost marks for her lack of discipline," he said, and my father 
nodded knowingly. "But," Authand went on, "she exhibited some of 
the best defensive and offensive flying I’ve ever seen yesterday. She’s 
the only reason this place is still standi ng. If anyone has earned a 
spot, it’s her." Having said his piece, he stepped back.  
Father turned back at me. "Well, in that case, I don’t think that I 
can, in good conscious, keep you from competing."  
"Thank you, your highness," I said, the formal honorif ic slipping 
out. It just didn’t feel right to call him daddy anymore. I wasn’t a 
221  Ash Rober ts 
 child. And "father" made me feel inferior. But he was royalty, and so 
was I. Didn’t that put us on equal footing?  
"You are welcome," he nodded at me. "I look forward to cheeri ng 
you on from the stands. Now, I am sorry we can’t stay longer, but I 
must get back Kastea. Duty calls. It always calls." He moved toward 
the door.  
Mother wrapped her arms around me once more, and this time I 
accepted her embrace. "I know you have duties now," she said, "But 
you are welcome to join us at the castle any time you are in town."  
I nodded, not trusting myself to speak.  
Once they left, Authand glanced between Esgeril and me. "I’m 
sure you two have a lot to talk about. But remember," he looked 
pointedly at Esgeril, "bed rest for a sevenday. No funny business."  
Esgeril blushed from the ears down to her toes at his statement.  
Then Authand followed my parents out the door, leaving the two 
of us alone for the first time since I had woken.  
"What’s goin g on? What is everyone hinting about?" I asked a still 
blushing Esgeril.  
She sat at the edge of my bed and placed her hand on mine. 
"Remember when you asked about me having a male dragon?"  
I remembered how upset she had gotten at the question, and how 
she’d refused to discuss it. "You said that it happened sometimes."  
"It does. In Dragoneer circles, it’s usually seen as a sign. Not many 
bond with a dragon of the opposite sex, but when it happens…" Her 
voice trailed off and she examined the stonework in the room.  
"Yes?"  
"When it happens," she drew circles on the floor with her foot, "it 
is usually a sign that the rider is gay."  
I stared at Esgeril, thinking about our friendship and all we’d been 
through together. And finally, the kiss she’d given me when I’d first 
woken. The kiss I had thoroughly enjoyed.  
"I’m gay, Kalia," she said, taking my silence for confusion. "I like 
women. But I was afraid to tell you. I know it’s not viewed the same 
in the central district as it is in the provinces."  
Royal Dragoneer   222 
 I opened my mouth to speak, but she held out her hand. "No, I 
need to finish. To finally say it out loud. I couldn’t tell you because I 
wasn’t sure how you’d react and…" This time I let her finish. "I love 
you."  
 
 
 
Shortly after my bedrest was over, I found myself on another 
stone bench. All Dragoneer ceremonies and events seemed to feature 
them. For everything that had changed in my life over the past year, 
here I was sitting on another stupid stone bench.  
At least I wanted to be at this ceremony. The Battle of Tulta had 
proven my worth. I wouldn’t say I single -handedly defeated the 
Goblin invaders there. But Farean would. In fact, she said it pretty 
much every chance she got.  
"Because  it’s true, "she said proudly" . Where  was everyone  else while we 
were saving  their hides?  That’s  right, hiding  in the woods  while we risked  our 
lives". 
I rolled my eyes, hoping everyone was too busy with the ceremony 
to listen in on her boasting. Never let it be said that drago ns weren’t 
the vainest creatures in all the kingdoms.  
Farean started to protest, but I blocked her out. Colonel Authand 
had finished introducing my father.  
"Today we celebrate those who helped defeat the Goblins at 
Tulta," the king began his speech, "and h onor those who lost their 
lives there. Or worse." His eyes darted to where Selkerdrim sat by 
himself. After the ceremony he would be escorted to a special facility 
at Envinyata. His body remained, but his spirit had departed.  
I forced my attention back to Father as he read off the list of 
names. So many killed. So many broken. I made a silent vow to do 
whatever it took to prevent such a tragedy from happening again.  
"Of course,  we will", Farean agreed.  
With each name, the crowd grew more somber. Dragoneers made 
up the majority of those assembled, with dragons gathered in the 
Royal Dragoneer   224 
 grass beyond the amphitheater. The rest of the audience consisted of 
nobles and other dignitaries.  
"Fortunately, as in most battles, while much was lost, much was 
gained," Father continu ed. "Many of the Dragoneer recruits proved 
themselves that day. Even with their dragons grounded, they 
demonstrated the merit of a ranged weapon. The wall held as long as 
it did thanks to the efforts of the Red riders.  
The red dragons trumpeted in the fiel d as their riders cheered. I 
risked a glance at Esgeril. Surrounded by those in her corps, she 
seemed genuinely happy. And I sincerely hoped she was, despite my 
rejection of her romantic interest in me. It wasn’t that I didn’t like 
her. It was just that I’ d truly taken her evaluation of me to heart. 
Maybe once, I had been a girl who put on independence until 
someone came along to take care of me. But now, I wanted to be a 
woman who took care of herself and her dragon. Maybe someday I’d 
have a relationship t hat was equal parts give and take, but first I had 
to learn how to just be me.  
"When the Greens took to the skies," my father was still talking, 
"their agile maneuvering kept them out of harm’s way while 
distracting the Goblins from the final counter attac k." The Green’s 
cheers at this praise were more muted. They had taken the brunt of 
the casualties on the day. I guess the most agile group of dragons 
wasn’t fast enough.  
It put my teeth on edge to see Lewon sit there with his peers. 
Somehow he’d managed on ce again avoid any responsibility for the 
devastation he’d caused. Somebody in the camp was covering for 
him. I would make it my life’s mission to find out who and bring 
Lewon’s deeds to light.  
"Once the siege weapons were destroyed, the heavy Orange 
drago ns made quick work of the remaining forces." True to form, 
those dragons and their riders provided the most noise, stomping and 
beating against each other causing a ruckus so loud I thought the 
entire building would come down.  
225  Ash Rober ts 
 "Finally, the Blue dragons ou t-raced the retreat, while the others 
rushed healers and supplies to the wounded." Farean and I hadn’t 
been part of either effort, recovering as we were from her injuries in 
the battle, but you would have never known any of that from how 
she took part in t he Blues’ cheer.  
"Aside from the efforts of the whole, there are certain individuals 
that need to be especially recognized." I sat up straighter, and Farean 
stopped in the continuing Blue cheer.  
"She may have been slow to accept her role and we were defini tely 
slow to accept her into your ranks, perhaps me most of all. But at the 
Battle of Tulta, Princess Kalia and Farean proved beyond argument 
that they have the skills, the wits, and the grit to be called 
Dragoneers. If not for them, vital help would have taken much 
longer to arrive, and only they were able to stay aflight in the face of 
the Goblin siege and discover a way to destroy their advantage. If not 
for their brave actions, Tulta would have ended much differently."  
More cheering.  
"Not as much as there should  be". Farean whined.  
"Enjoy  the praise  and admiration  of those who recognize  our worth.  Don’t  
worry about the others.  Most of them have been poisoned  by Lewon’s  lies. They 
will understand  eventually. " 
"They should  understand  now. We saved them." 
"I know," I said, apparently aloud, because Esgeril turned and 
stared at me.  
"You should  just mate her and be done with it. "Farean said, catching my 
response to that stare. " That’s  the dragon  way". 
"I’m not a dragon. And it’s not that simple."  
She let out  a little huff. " That’s  not what your heart says. You desire her". 
"Maybe,  but I can’t be distracted  by that right now. "I turned my 
attention back to the speech, but Father wasn’t talking. Instead, he 
was glaring at me with an outstretched hand. All eyes were on me.  
I looked around, unsure of what had happened while Farean and I 
were arguing.  
Esgeril caught my eye and gave a nod towards the podium.  
Royal Dragoneer   226 
 I stood and scurried to the front as everyone watched.  
I found myself next to Father, unsure what to do.  
"I was slow to accept my daughter as a Dragoneer," he addressed 
the crowd. "As I’m sure you all were. A thousand years of tradition 
broken by a young girl. But she has demonstrated skills and abilities 
that prove she is more suited for a life guarding our skie s with you 
than a life in the castle walls. And for her actions that day, it is my 
great honor to, by the recommendation of General Lutania and 
unanimous vote of the Council of Elders, issue the Golden Leaf to 
Princess Kalia of Kastea."  
I gasped. Murmurs w ent through the crowd. The Golden Leaf was 
the highest honor in all Darneta. Nobody had even received it since 
Father had been king. He smiled at me, gesturing me forward. I took 
a small step and gulped. He reached into his pocket a pulled out a 
pin. The g olden leaf glittered in the morning sun as he worked the 
point through the leather of my harness. After fastening the clasp, he 
stepped back, clapped his hands together, and applause erupted from 
the stands.  
I had finally made my father proud and been acce pted by my 
peers.  
But that isn’t what made me truly happy on that day.  
It was the glow of unconditional love and oneness radiating into 
me through my connection with Farean.  
The thing that made me happy was a dragon . 
 
 


 
 
Sign up to my newsletter for a free book  
 
To say that Authand yearned for adventure would be a lie. 
Life on his father's farm was hard - always too much to d o and 
never quite enough to eat  - but it was his and that suited him 
just fine.  
But sometimes life doesn't give us what we want. While 
hunting, Authand finds something unthinkable, a lone dragon 
egg. Imprinting on a dragon hatchling means his life will be 
anything but  ordinary. Especially when his father, the gentlest 
man he'd ever known, reacts violently.  
Armed with nothing more than his wits - and a dragon - 
Authand must find his way to the famed Dragoneers for a place 
to call home in a world that has little love for  a Black man or a 
feral dragon   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Sign up now  
 
http://bit.ly/feraldragon  

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ash Roberts  
 
 
 
 This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and 
incidents either are the product of the author’s imagination or are 
used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or 
dead, events, or locales is entirely coincidental.   
 
Copyright © 2020 by Ash Roberts  
 
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reprod uced or 
used in any manner without written permission of the copyright 
owner except for the use of quotations in a book review.   
  
 
 
 
To my wife, who believes in me more than I tend to believe in 
myself
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
It takes a village to  write a book. I couldn’t have done it without 
the help and support of my village.  
 
Monica, who is much smarter than me and taught me much of 
what I know about the craft, Chrishaun , Heather A and Heather 
D for letting me bounce ideas off of them, Ripley for phenomenal 
editing, Anna, who provided me with the kernel of the idea for 
this book, Riley for babysitting while I wrote, Inara for believing 
in me, and my mother for always enco uraging me, ever since 
the first time I wrote a story in the fourth grade.  

 
 
 
I woke from a nap I hadn’t intended to take to find the sun high in 
the sky. I was supposed to be meeting someone in the castle right 
now. I shouldn’t have gone out at all, but Elves are made of nature, 
and it calls to us. At least, that’s the excuse I would  give if I got in 
trouble. But I wouldn’t because I was the Princess.  
On the west side of the property, a large meadow separated my 
home from the city below. A hill gave a magnificent view of stone 
buildings and thatched roofs and farmland beyond it. It wa s as close 
to seeing the world from the sky as I wanted to get.  
I was nearly back to the castle when, a shadow sped across the 
ground, crossing mine. Large. Winged.  Dragon.  My heart raced, and 
an uncontrollable panic rose inside of me.  It’s just flying over. It won’t 
come back. But even as I thought it, the rider circled back, the huge 
Orange beast he controlled barrelling down on me. I ducked inside 
the nearest doorway, gasping for breath. Hidden in the cool darkness 
of its shaded overhang, my mind slip ped back to the day of my fifth 
birthday.  
My grandfather held estates in the south, close to the front of our 
war with the Orc’s kingdom of Glamhoth. My mother didn’t 
approve, but because it was my birthday, Grandfather let me ride 
with him as he made his rounds that day. On our way back, the horse 
suddenly snorted and balked. Grandfather spurred the animal on, but 
it almost bucked us off.  
While the mare settled back on all four hooves, I saw them. "Ooh, 
dragons," I squealed, pointing at the two winged -creatures low over 
the horizon.  
Royal Dragoneer   10 
 Grandfather tensed behind me. He yanked at the reigns. "Move, 
you drafted animal, or I’ll feed you to those beasts myself." He 
regained control of the horse and we galloped back to his house. I 
bounced in the saddle and grabbed tightly at the arm he held around 
me. 
"To arms," he shouted as we rode. "Orcs attack on dragons. To 
arms!"  
Farmhands streamed from the fields to the guardhouses where 
soldiers handed out swords, staves, and other weapons. Closer to the 
house, tradespeople assembled any tools at hand for defence, while 
children stacked buckets by the well.  
At the stables. Grandfather jumped off his mount before we even 
stopped. He pulled me down and carried me inside as easily as I did 
one of my dolls. We cut through the kit chens where the cooks were 
stripping the room of its knives and cleavers, sticking them into belts 
and holsters.  
In the sitting room, The Royal Guard surrounded my parents, 
swords pointing outward. They saw us and parted, making way. 
"Kalia!" Mother cried,  grabbing me, a terrified look in her eyes.  
"Get to the kitchens," Grandfather commanded. "You can hide in 
the root cellar. You will be safe there." He pushed through the guard 
and took down the polished broadsword that hung above the mantle.  
"Dad, no," Mo ther said. "Come with us."  
He held the weapon up, checking that the blade had remained true 
after sitting idle so long. "This is my land, and I will defend it," he 
said. "And defend you." Without another word, he was gone.  
The guards ushered us into the kitchen and pulled open the 
cellar’s hatch. Mother carried me towards it, but I squirmed out of 
her grasp. "My dolly," I cried. Guards reached for me, but I 
scrambled between their legs. My young mind understood there was 
danger. That was exactly why I had  to save it.  
I’d left it on the parapet, the low stone wall surrounding the 
second floor. It was the best vantage point of Grandfather’s 
property.  
11  
 As I stood at that wall, I saw my grandfather down below in the 
courtyard, raising his sword to an Orc mounte d on a huge green 
dragon.  
He swung at the beast, but it caught the sword in its talons. 
Another great claw flipped him into the air, his body crashing into 
the stone rampart. He did not move.  
"No," I cried. Hands grabbed at me, and I struggled, biting and 
kicking like my life depended on it.  
"Hush, child." The Captain of the Royal Guard held me tighter.  
I stopped struggling and fell limp in his arms. Tears fell freely as 
he took me back to my parents.  
"Lord Hollysword is dead," he told them somberly.  
I don’ t remember much more from that day. We spent hours in 
that cellar. Only the occasional crashing noise made it through the 
thick door. When it finally opened, the Captain looked down at us, a 
tall Dark Elf in Dragoneer garb standing at his side.  
"The fight is over," The Captain told us. "Thanks to this man and 
his dragon."  
The Dark Elf wore dark orange leather and a bloody bandage over 
his right hand. Father thanked him for his bravery and gave him 
money for a healer. But I knew he had to be bad to ride a dr agon. A 
dragon killed my Grandfather right before my eyes. I did not trust 
this man or the enormous Orange beast that paced outside our door. 
Dragons were killers. They were evil.  
And now, back in the here and now, a dragon was invading my 
home once again.  Was it an attack or some kind of pretense at help? 
Either way, I had to pull it together. I had to warn my parents, or at 
least the guards. I needed to move, but I stood there in my shadowed 
doorway, shaking for some moments before I found the courage to 
continue into the castle.  
I hurried to the wing where Father conducted business. I wasn’t 
exactly forbidden from being there. He just didn’t like "silly little girls 
running about." But I was neither silly nor running, I was on a 
mission.  
Royal Dragoneer   12 
 "If you don’t sen d more resources," a deep and scratchy voice 
said, "we won’t be able to cover the front. Fawla won’t be the only 
province to fall." Voices like that came from long years of yelling 
from dragon.  
The dragon wasn’t an attacker. Inside, my father held court wi th 
one of the Dragoneers of Darneta. They were our army who rode 
dragons into battle during times of war. I knew I shouldn’t eavesdrop 
just outside the door, but if I was to be a competent wife to the next 
king of Darneta someday, I needed to be informed. And the heavy 
oak door was slightly open anyway. It was an easy enough mistake. 
The thing weighed more than I did.  
I leaned closer. I could justify it all I wanted, but truly I was 
curious about the Dragoneer. I couldn’t understand how any man 
could spend his life around those terrible beasts. I wanted to catch a 
peak at someone that crazy.  
Father sat on his throne wearing the thick fur robes he reserved 
for formal occasions. And the man pacing before him was someone I 
instantly recognized. He was the same Draogoneer from that horrible 
day ten years ago. In place of the hand that been bandaged the last 
time I saw him, a metal hook protruded from a harness around a 
rounded stump. This must be Authand, the famous Dragoneer 
Colonel.  
He turned, glancing my direc tion, and I ducked back behind the 
door, holding my breath. Thankfully, he must not have seen me 
because he resumed his ranting about feed for his dragons.  
"You will have to make do," Father told him. When I peeked 
again, I could see him gripping the armre sts of his chair. "The 
Goblins have been destroying our crops. The people will revolt if I 
send food to dragons before Elves."  
"The people will die if the dragons aren’t up to fighting strength," 
the rider thundered back. "There is more to Darneta than you r cushy 
seat here in Kastea. You need to stop thinking of popularity and start 
thinking of survival. If you don’t, well, the other kingdoms have need 
of Dragoneers as well." I couldn’t believe Father let him talk like that. 
13  
 Each kingdom had its own corp of  Dragoneers. It had never 
occurred to me that a fleet might emigrate to another kingdom if they 
weren’t treated well. The idea felt almost treasonous. I would have 
had Authand thrown in the dungeons if he’d said such a thing to me.  
But Father stayed calm. He was angry; that was for sure. A wave 
of color flashed across his face and ears before disappearing. He took 
a breath and set his expression into a deep frown. Was Father just 
going to take the rebuke? A king shouldn’t accept criticism from 
commoners lik e this Authand. I put my hand on the door. If Father 
wouldn’t handle the matter, I would.  
"What are you doing?’ Mother demanded from behind me. "Etlin 
is waiting for you in the gardens." I would swear she was part air 
elemental the way she could sneak up o n people. She always told me 
ladies glide when they walk, not run from spot to spot like I did.  
I turned away from the gaping door casually. "I was on my way 
when I heard a noise. I think there is something wrong with Father."  
She shook her head. "More lik e you were nosing into private 
business." Her frown softened into a smile. "So, what did you learn?"  
I crossed my arms. "A Dark Elf is being belligerent towards 
Father. I don’t understand how someone like that could be in charge 
of our military."  
"They are  still Elves," she reprimanded my prejudice. "Never 
judge a person by their appearance. It is their character that counts. 
And you are one to talk about belligerence. Now go. Ladies do not 
keep their suitors waiting." She gave me a gentle push.  
"But Father -." 
"Your father can handle his own affairs without you. Just like you 
should be attending to your own affairs right now."  She held the 
same graceful poise as a moment ago, but her features looked harder 
now. It was an expression of patience wearing. I’d seen that look 
many times growing up, and it wouldn’t go well if I didn’t comply 
with her demands.  
I started jogging to the  courtyard.  
"Ladies walk," she called after me.  
Royal Dragoneer   14 
 I slowed down but still couldn’t manage the gentle footfalls of my 
mother. She was a true lady, and I was something else entirely. But 
she still loved me fiercely, and I her.  
Etlin slouched on the wide stones  surrounding the fountain, one 
hand drawing slow circles in the still water. I was half an hour late for 
our meeting, at least. He straightened and stood at my noisy entrance. 
A few short steps closed the gap between us. I was still upset at 
Authand and my  mother, but I melted a little at the sight of him in 
his starched breaches and silk shirt. I smiled as he kissed my nose.  
I tried to give a girlish giggle, but, as usual, my body refused to 
behave with the grace and poise I had supposedly been born to. 
Instead, it came out as a snort.  
Etlin laughed.  
My ears turned red, but I laughed with him.  
His arms slid down my arms, taking my hands in his.  
I could have stayed there, looking into his eyes forever. Or better 
yet, we could have snuck off into the shadows and really kissed. But, 
of course, that wouldn’t have been appropriate behavior for a 
princess.  
"Guess who I saw?" I asked him, trying to return my attention to 
the problem of dragons at the castle.  
"Hopefully somebody important, considering how late you w ere." 
He grinned.  
I stuck out my tongue at him. It wasn’t very regal, but I didn’t 
care. "A Dragoneer Colonel. He was meeting with Father."  
"He probably arrived early for the hatching," Etlin speculated. 
"The other races should be here soon. Makes sense th at he would 
want to arrive beforehand to greet them."  
"The cooks have been preparing food for days. Some of it smells 
really bad." I made a face as I recalled the thick smell of blood from 
the cow they’d drained for the Nightbloods. The Wolf -shifters would  
eat the meat, so nothing would go to waste. The Humans and 
Elementals ate ordinary enough food, but what Orcs ate was 
completely disgusting. It was bad enough that Orcs were allowed in 
15  
 the castle at all. But there was an official truce now, because the 
Goblins were the enemy of us all. If we didn’t stand together, they 
would outnumber and obliterate us. Still, the Orcs’ food should have 
been illegal. Bile rose in my throat, just thinking about it.  
This brought a fresh bout of laughter from him. "I’m sure t hey 
cringe at our diet as well. But I wouldn’t mind if they didn’t come. 
Then we could keep all of the eggs for ourselves."  
My stomach revolted at the idea. "They can keep the eggs," I said. 
"Don’t we have enough dragons?"  
"Come now, you can’t mean that. T hey’re our primary means of 
fighting the Goblins. You can’t be afraid of dragons forever."  
"They killed my grandfather. I watched it happen. I’m not afraid. I 
just won’t forgive." Of course, it was a lie. I’d been terrified by the 
mere shadow of a dragon e arlier. It had made me feel like that 
helpless five -year-old all over again.  
Etlin stood up straight. "A dragon is a weapon, just like a sword. 
One cannot blame the weapon for the wielder’s actions. Beside, that 
war is over. They’re our allies now."  
I hate d it when Etlin got all manly and lordly on me. As if I 
needed a lecture on dragons and swords and wars. He was so nice to 
look at and kiss, though. But I was completely not in the mood 
anymore.  
"Maybe you should leave," I said letting of or his hand.  
"But—I—We," he stammered, surprised I would turn him away 
after he’d given me such a fine argument against my silly girlish ways.  
"Go, really," I said, dismissing him. "We’ll talk later."
 

 
 
 
The hatchery lay just a mile east of the capital. Previous times the 
dragons had chosen Darneta for laying their broods, the other noble 
children liked to come down here to gawk at the infant dragons and 
the young Dragoneers chosen to care for them. I alwa ys had an 
excuse. I was ill, I’d injured myself, I was needed at the castle.  
But while my parents had humored me when I was younger, I was 
fifteen now. By this time next year, I’d be making preparations for 
my marriage to Etlin.  
So, I couldn’t avoid the du ties of state any longer. Instead, I was 
stuck in an underground cavern staring at a dragon egg. And if that 
wasn’t bad enough, there were dozens more where that had come 
from. They were tucked behind a large wooden door waiting for their 
turn on the raise d dais in the center of the cave, with several rows of 
stone benches forming a U around it. At least the royal box was 
toward the back, even if its elevation made me feel more exposed.  
Steam rose from nearby pools, making the air humid. No natural 
light pe netrated the underground space, so lanterns were suspended 
from the ceiling, casting a flickering yellow glow on everything.  
"When is it going to do something?" I asked, fidgeting in my seat. 
"We’ve been here an hour already." Pretending to be bored wasn’t  as 
easy as I’d hoped, when all I really wanted to do was flee.  
"You are witnessing the miracle of life, young lady." Mother 
patted my hand firmly enough to express her disproval. "A new soul 
being born into the world. It cannot be rushed."  
How could she f orget that one of those ‘miracles of life’ had 
ended her father’s? How could she be so forgiving?  
Royal Dragoneer   18 
 "But I don’t want to be here," I moaned. "I want to go home and 
witness the miracle of a soft bed."  
Mother glared at me, and I knew I had crossed a line. She gave me 
her disappointed nod, the kind that meant her reprimand would 
come later, in private, where I couldn’t make a scene. Father, 
however, had no such qualms. He turned in his chair and leaned in 
close to my face. I pulled back, but he grabbed my wrists —right 
there in front of the guards and servants, and even the commoners 
closest to our box.  
"You are the princess of Darneta, the greatest of the Seven 
Kingdoms," he said. "You have a duty to your people to be present 
for important events. You don’t have to like it. Now, sit and watch 
these eggs until something happens. And when they hatch, you will 
cheer and look happy."  
He turned back around in his seat, facing the dais with its egg. 
Mother passed me a cloth, and I dabbed my eyes, careful not to 
smear th e little bit of makeup I’d been allowed to wear. I glanced 
around. The guards stood stoic as ever, but the servants were doing 
their best not to look in my direction. A few rows ahead of us, I 
caught Etlin’s eyes. He looked away quickly, pretending to be 
intensely interested in the egg as it sat on the heated rocks.  
I took a breath, looking at it myself. I could do this. After all, it 
was just an egg. An egg couldn’t kill. That came later. When it 
hatched. But for now, it was just an egg, like the chicken e ggs I ate 
for breakfast, only larger.  
I studied it. It stood three feet high and could have been a rock if 
not for the perfect ovoid shape of it. Once, dragons had hatched in 
the wild, and the mother’s had arranged their eggs to look like natural 
formation s to protect from predators. I couldn’t image what 
predators a dragon could have.  
The egg wobbled.  
I sucked in my breath. It wouldn’t be just an egg much longer.  
It wobbled again, and a crack formed near the top.  
19  Ash Rober ts 
 I tried not to panic, gripping my seat with  both hands to keep 
myself from jumping up and running out.  
Silence fell over the crowd as we watched the egg fracture.  
The potential Dragoneers scrambled for position, the older teens 
pushing to get in front while some of the younger contestants sought 
shelter behind their larger competitors. Save for the Dwarves, who 
abhorred the very thought of flight, every kingdom race was 
represented on the hatching floor. A Wolf -shifter and a Nightblood 
shoved each other, nearly breaking into a fight.  
Then, a tapping  sound froze everyone, and a blue beak thrust 
through a crack in the shell. Tiny silver talons poked out next, 
pushing the opening wider. Finally, the egg split open in fractured 
pieces, and an infant dragon spilled from it.  
It pushed up on its wing claws and craned its head, looking around 
and screeching like one of Father’s racing hawks, except louder. It 
stood about five feet tall, and light filtered through the translucent 
wings to cast a blue pall over the nearby contestants. As it swung its 
head this way and that, crying for its mother, I got a good look at its 
odd-shaped skull.  
"What’s wrong with it?" I blurted.  
The entire audience turned at my outburst and stared. I felt my 
ears growing red. But there was something obviously wrong with the 
dragon. Us ually, the monsters had large, pointy, Elf -like ears. They 
didn’t have stubby little flaps.  
The dignitaries and hopefuls weren’t the only one whose attention 
I had caught.  
The baby dragon turned its head and looked at me, its eyes 
seeming to pierce my soul  and examine the very heart of me.  
"She". I heard a voice whisper behind me.  
I whirled around but there was no one there. Slowly, I turned back 
to the dragon.  
"She", the voice said again. " I’m a girl, like you. Don’t  worry;  my features  
will grow in time to look more like yours". 
Royal Dragoneer   20 
 I jumped up, sending my chair flying. I scrambled backwards, 
away from the dragon.  
It hissed and stumbled towards the stands, barreling through the 
contestants on the hatching floor.  
The spectators backed away, crowding the sides of  the viewing 
area. 
It – "I keep telling  you, I’m a she" – screeched again and started 
climbing up the rock wall that separated the arena from the royal 
viewing box.  
I cowered in the corner as the dragon approached. The little blue 
creature wasn’t as tall a s a grown man, but all I could see, in my 
mind’s eye, was the huge green dragon that had killed my 
Grandfather.  
"Get that beast under control," my father shouted.  
Guards closed in around my parents with spears pointed at the 
evil thing.  
"No, protect my dau ghter." He shooed them away. "It’s after the 
Princess. Save her." He pulled his own sword out. It was only a 
ceremonial piece with a gem -encrusted hilt and polished blade, but I 
appreciated the gesture.  
A guard stepped towards the dragon; it eyed him with tilted head 
as if trying to decide if he were friend or foe. Three more guards 
converged around me.  
The dragon saw this and leapt into the air. I thought it was going 
to fly away, but instead the creature tumbled back to the ground right 
on top of me.  
My b reath left me as its head pushed into my chest. I couldn’t 
move. This was it. Hopefully Grandfather would meet me on the 
other side to lead me to the Fields of Arman. Maybe there was a 
special section for those who had been killed by dragons.  
But instead o f chomping down on my head or impaling me with 
its sharp claws, the dragon turned towards the guards, rose to its hind 
legs and flapped its wings.  
I sucked in a breath as its weight lifted off my chest.  
21  Ash Rober ts 
 A guard thrust his sword, and the dragon backed from it, pinning 
me once again.  
"Get off of me," I gasped, bringing my arms up to my head. To 
the guards, I pleaded. "Help me."  
The dragon hissed and snapped at the men as they pressed closer. 
From under the beast, I could see their expressions as my father’s 
soldiers debated whether they could kill it.  
"Stop!" shouted a voice, echoing through the chamber. "Get away 
from that dragon," Colonel Authand commanded. He hadn’t been 
present at the beginning of the hatching, but he was here now. His 
Orange dragon, too l arge to fit into the hatching cavern, peeked its 
head through a door and trumpeted in displeasure.  
Why was he protecting a dragon that was attacking me? A growl 
of frustration rose up in my throat. " Wait,  had I just growled? " 
"I’m not attacking  you. "The whispery voice in my head said. " I’m 
keeping  you safe from these assassins ". 
The Colonel closed the distance to the seating area and leapt over 
the wall. He reached the guards surrounding us and yanked the first 
one away by his sword arm. The guard twisted  and swung at 
Authand, but despite his disability the Colonel dodged the blow with 
ease. 
"Back off," he said, and the other guards obeyed. "She is only 
protecting her rider."  
"Exactly.  You are my rider and it is my duty to save you from these 
scoundrels. " 
That was when I realized the voice I’d been hearing was the 
dragon hatchling. But its mouth didn’t move when it spoke to me. It 
was speaking directly into my mind.  

 
 
 
"But I can’t be a rider," I protested. "I’m th e Princess."  
Authand moved towards me and the guards gave him even more 
space. I could feel the dragon relax as it slid off of me gently. Relief 
washed over me. But the feeling was odd, alien, like it wasn’t my own 
emotion but something coming from outside  of me. I looked at the 
dragon and cocked my head in a silent question. It actually nodded, 
and I added that to the long list of really weird things that were 
happening today.  
Father and Mother came forward, cautiously, keeping well out of 
the reach of the  dragon. Mother looked worried. Father looked angry 
and perplexed.  
"Dragons don’t care about rank or society," Authand explained. 
"They choose their riders based on the qualities of a good companion 
and rider. Sometimes, they even see traits in us that we,  ourselves, 
cannot."  
"That’s  right, "the voice in my head said."  And you are the bravest  and 
most loyal in all of Darneta ". 
A large Orange dragon snout poked through the doorway and 
snorted.  
The Colonel shook his head. "Or sometimes, the dragon is just 
young and foolish and exercises poor judgement."  
I bristled at the comment, but I had to agree. This stupid animal 
had made a terrible mistake. I could not possibly be a good 
companion or rider to something I despised.  
Authand rubbed the dragon on her shoulde r, and conflicting 
emotions filled me. She seemed to be enjoying it, and that made me 
happy for some reason. But part of me wanted to push him away and 
Royal Dragoneer   24 
 do it myself. Which was crazy. How could I want to touch a dragon, 
let alone rub its shoulder?  
The drago n’s spiked tail stopped switching back and forth. The 
Colonel patted her twice and took a step towards me. He took my 
hand in his. It was dry and rough, scratching my delicate skin. He 
spoke barely above a whisper, words meant for me and no other. 
"Princes s Kalia, I know this may not be want you wanted, but this is 
a baby who needs you now. You have a duty to it, and your nation, to 
help her grow into an adult."  
I pulled away from him. He had no business telling me what I had 
to do. "But I can’t." My eyes p leaded with his.  
He shook his head. "You will learn." He gave a small smile and 
guided my hand to the dragon’s back. Loud enough for the crowd to 
hear, he said, "Now, the first step is to get your dragon out of the 
seating area and into the back. Korth wil l meet you there to get you 
started, and we can give the other eggs a chance to hatch."  
He pushed again, and I took a step forward. I had been so caught 
up in the events of the past few minutes that I had forgotten that 
everybody, literally every important  person in Darneta, and more 
than a few from the other kingdoms, had watched this drama unfold. 
I’d made enough of a scene for one day and decided that the back 
portion of this cavern would be more comfortable than the looks I 
was getting.  
As I passed my p arents, I glanced at them. Father scowled.  
I wanted to tell him this was his fault. If he hadn’t insisted I attend 
the hatching, none of this would have happened.  
Mother bit her lip. I caught her eyes, glistening with tears. The 
action of looking at me see med to burst the dam of her composure 
and she started crying.  
Father took her in his arms to console her. He looked up as 
Authand led us out of the royal box. Mother’s tears hadn’t softened 
him; if anything, he was angrier now.  
Fine, let him be angry. I wa sn’t exactly happy about it either.  
"Do you want me to eat him?" 
25  Ash Rober ts 
 "Shush, you. There will be no eating of anybody," I said aloud. 
The crowd pressed away from us even more.  
I stopped at the wall. I couldn’t climb over it in my dress without 
being immodest. The Colonel nodded me forward, but I stood 
motionless. He cocked his head towards the dragon door and seemed 
to realize my plight. He stepped behind me and scooped me up.  
I let out a shriek at being airborne but was back down on the 
other side a moment lat er. The crowd seemed to find it funny. Great, 
even more to be embarrassed about.  
"If they tease you, I will eat them". 
"I said no eating people." The tittering and murmuring ceased.  
Authand gestured me forward and we started towards the rear 
chamber again.  He leaned in close and whispered, "You know, you 
can communicate silently with her. It would be better to do so than 
to keep publicly reporting her infant whims about eating people."  
"How do I do that?"  
"Think of her and just say the words in your mind," he said.  
I took in the sight of this creature who had adopted me as her 
mother and thought at it, Can you hear me? 
"Yes, Kalia.  I can hear you. And please  don’t call me ‘it’. That hurts my 
feelings ". 
"Sorry". I looked down.  
"Practice this, both of you," Au thand said. "In time, you will learn 
to pay attention to only the thoughts directed at you, instead of 
hearing all of them."  
I cringed at the word " all." In spite of everything that had been 
going on, my thoughts had gone to Etlin when the Colonel had 
swoo ped me up in his arms. I had wished it had been Etlin’s arms 
instead.  
"Have you had a mating  flight with him yet?" 
Authand snorted. Wait. Could he hear her too? Could he hear me? 
Did being stuck with a dragon mean I had to give up any semblance 
of privacy?  "What is your name?" I asked her, forgetting to say it with 
my mind.  
Royal Dragoneer   26 
 "I am Farean.  We are going to be great friends. " 
I doubted that, but kept my mouth shut as we reached the rear 
doors. They were bigger than normal ones, but not quite as large as 
the one s leading to the throne room. Authand pulled them open 
effortlessly, and Farean and I were able to pass through side by side.  
We entered a cavern that dwarfed the hatching chamber. Fires 
dotted the floor clustered around caches of eggs. Acrid smoke 
cloaked  the ceiling and stained the walls. I pulled out Mother’s cloth 
to dab the beads of sweat forming at my brow.  
The enormous Orange dragon from the door earlier met us. I tried 
to back away, but with Authand behind me, I had nowhere to go. 
"This is Korth," I  was introduced, as if he were a lord or something. 
"He will help you get settled." Authand stepped past us and rubbed 
the behemoth’s muzzle. The man’s gaze seemed almost that of a 
lover’s. A small smile flickered across his lips before his features 
return ed to the gruff expression he usually wore. He shouted over to 
where some Elves and smaller dragons were huddled, "Bring out the 
next egg. C’mon. Let’s get this show moving before they all hatch in 
here."  
The group burst into a frenzy of activity as two gr een dragons 
lifted the egg from a nest and lowered it onto a cart. The Elves 
pushed it to the door and out to the hatching grounds. I watched as 
they arrayed themselves in a circle and hoisted the egg. The five 
holding it up seemed to struggle as the sixth  pulled the cart out. They 
lowered it onto the hot rocks and the taller one leaned in and 
whispered to the egg. That done, they hurried back inside.  
"Those are second year trainees. Next year, you might help with 
the hatching if eggs are laid in Darneta ag ain," Authand said.  
"Over my dead body." I glanced at the dragon hatchling beside me 
and gulped. To get the image of it eating me out of my mind, I 
focused on a tall boy as he broke away from the group. Authand 
waved him towards us. "This is Lewon, the hea d of his class."  
"What did he say to the egg?" I asked as he approached.  
27  Ash Rober ts 
 "He gave it permission to hatch. It’s not a science, as Farean just 
proved, but they generally wait until we tell them it’s show time."  
Lewon closed the gap between us and held out his hand in the 
typical manner of the outer provinces. I raised the back of my hand 
to his, hinting at the proper etiquette for being introduced to a lady. 
He looked at it like he wasn’t sure what he was supposed to do. My 
ears turned red and I lowered my hand.  
"I bet you wouldn’t  mind a mating  flight with him". My ear tips grew 
warmer, and Lewon broke out laughing. Great, I had a faulty dragon 
that anybody could listen in on.  
"Just the other dragons.  I can’t help what they share with their riders. " 
"Well, just shut up and stop embarrassing  me". I stomped off like a 
child, but it followed me as I headed away from the others.  
"She." Her ‘voice’ was filled with annoyance. " How would  you like it 
if I called you an it?" She turned her head towards Korth and nodd ed 
before returning her attention back on me. " He says we must go down to 
the pool, so you can wash me". 
"What?" I said, forgetting to think my words to her. "Do I look 
like a servant to you? I’m not " touching " you with a ten -foot pole." 
The Elves and drag ons paused their work of loading an egg as my 
voice echoed through the underground cavern.  
There were entirely too many dragons near me. Arenaline coursing 
through my body made me jittery, every nerve screaming for me to 
run. I glanced around. If an adult dragon couldn’t come through the 
door to the hatching floor, there must be another exit.  
Korth directed the events of the backroom as a young red dragon 
entered with the Nightblood candidate I’d seen earlier, and the 
second years brought out another egg.  
Behind the Orange beast, a tunnel large enough for even his bulk 
retreated into darkness. Flickering dots of light from torches on the 
walls receded into the distance.  
I headed in that direction.  
Farean followed me. " Where  are you going?  The pool is the other way". 
To add to her mental plea, she trumpeted and floundered around the 
Royal Dragoneer   28 
 dirt floor, kicking up a cloud of dust and getting everyone’s attention 
again.  
I picked up my pace, now as close to a run as my dress would 
allow.  
Farean bounced awkwardly as she t ried to gallop to keep up.  
Authand intercepted me before I could reach the tunnel, grabbing 
my arm and nearly yanking it out of its socket. "You’re supposed to 
stay with your dragon here at the hatchery until she is old enough to 
fly, and then you leave fo r the training grounds."  
I’d had enough of people grabbing me and pushing me around for 
one day. I pulled loose from his grip; more out of surprise on his part 
than strength on mine. "I am not sleeping on a dirt floor in what 
amounts to a stable. There’s b een a huge mistake. I’m not fit to take 
care of Farean. I’m going home where there are no dragons."  
I pushed past him and on to the tunnel.  
Lewon started after me, but Authand stopped him. "Wait," he 
said. "She won’t get far."  
"I’ll show him", I thought as  I plunged into the darkness.  
 
 
 
The tunnel wasn’t too bad. The torches provided enough light to 
see by as it sloped up towards the surface. Compared to the heat of 
the hatching cavern, though, it was downright damp and chilly.  
Heavy footsteps followed me into the darkness. I kept up my 
pace, hoping to put some distance between me and my pursuer.  
"Wait for me," Farean whined.  
I used it as encouragement to keep going.  
At last, daylight shone at the mouth of the tunnel. I stepped into 
the open air. Dark clouds covered the sun, and cold wind gusted 
around me. I considered finding my parent’s carriage and taking it 
back, but I was in enough trouble and didn’t want to add to it. 
Instead, I hurried down the path.  
Farean followed me through the woods and into the capital. Elves 
dove out of our way and ducked behind carts and barrels as we 
walked through the streets. I wished I could do the same, but there 
was no losing her. For her part, she ignored them. Her head swive led 
as she walked, like a newborn baby on its first trip outside, which 
technically she was. Her tail swung back and forth, occasionally 
knocking over barrels of salted fish or grain. I felt a raindrop and 
quickened my pace.  
I was huffing by the time I rea ched the castle. The guard at the 
door eyed me, no doubt wondering what I was doing home without 
my parents and in such a state.  
I made it back to my room and had to light a candle. The sky had 
grown so dark that I might have mistaken it for twilight. I ha d the 
presence of mind to close my shutters before collapsing on my bed, 
Royal Dragoneer   30 
 the oak frame creaking as it distributed my weight across the four 
posters supporting a silk canopy.  
I heard shouts from the floor below, but I couldn’t concentrate on 
them. I felt ic ky and needed a bath, but all I could think about was 
sleep. I kicked off my destroyed sandals but otherwise crawled under 
the wool blankets fully dressed.  
I woke to Farean’s whining echoing in my head. " Kalia,  I can’t reach 
you. Kalia,  why did you leave me? Kalia,  come here, pleeeeeeeease. " 
I squeezed my eyes together harder, as if that would keep her 
voice out of my brain. I brought a pillow over my head, but the 
psychic connection would not be silenced. And outside, I could still 
hear the rainstorm that had descended over the city, raging and 
matching my mood.  
A knock on my door brought me out from under my pillow. 
"Enter," I called, not caring how I looked.  
A maid, the same one from yesterday, shuffled in, her head down. 
"Princess, there is a dragon in t he main hall. It says that it’s with 
you?"  
"Do I look like I have a dragon?" I snapped. "Tell it to leave. It is 
not welcome here. And draw me a bath."  
She didn’t move. "The dragon won’t leave. The porter said it came 
in with you, making it your responsibi lity. Please, my lady. Your 
parents aren’t here, and it is scaring everybody."  
"It’s scaring me as well." I sighed. "Fine. I will send it away. But 
prepare that bath, I wasn’t kidding about that."  
"Kalia,  Kalia.  Where  are you? I neeeeeed  you". 
I took the s teps two at a time. "Oh, shut up. I’m coming." I passed 
a different maid, and she stopped at my outburst. "Not you. Go do 
something." She shook her head and continued up the stairs. Great, 
now I had the servants thinking I was crazy. I wished I was crazy; it 
would be preferable to owning a dragon that would eat me at the first 
opportunity, like the bears that the Orcs trained but were always 
attacking their masters.  
31  Ash Rober ts 
 I found Farean in the great hall with a few servants, their backs 
pressed against the far wa ll. As I stepped into the room, happiness 
washed over me.  
"Kalia.  You came back". "Oh, Kalia.  I knew you’d come back". 
I hesitantly reached out to her. My hand shook as it inched closer 
to her muzzle. " Please  don’t bite me. Please  don’t bite me." 
"I would  never do that". She pushed her nose towards my hand. It 
made contact, and I jumped back. I nervously glanced around the 
room, but the servants had vanished. I reached out again. I touched 
her snout lightly and, sensing no attack, allowed the full weight to  
rest on her. Farean rewarded me with another push of contentment.  
My stomach rumbled. Except it wasn’t mine. I looked at her.  
"What’s  wrong  with me? "She thought at me" . My middle  feels weird. " 
The stomach rumbling sensation came again. The good feeling 
from our contact evaporated. "You’re hungry, Stupid. Don’t you 
know what that is?"  
Farean shook her head. I kept forgetting she was only a couple of 
hours old.  
I grabbed a passing servant. "We need some food. What do you 
eat, Farean?"  
It better not be princ ess. 
"Meat.  "She blasted the word into my brain. I didn’t know that you 
could squeal telepathically, but I couldn’t describe it any other way.  
"Get her some meat," I told the servant. "Surely we have roast 
leftover from yesterday."  
He scurried off to the kitchens. I wasn’t sure how the cooks would 
react to the request, but they needed to hurry. My stomach was 
twisting in knots, like I’d never eaten before. Then again, I guess that 
was literally true for Farean.  
The servant came back carrying a banquet plat ter piled high with 
cuts of mutton and beef. He stopped at the doorway. The platter 
wavered as his whole body quaked, threatening to overturn the meal.  
"Come on." I waved him closer.  
Royal Dragoneer   32 
 His eyes flicked between the food he was carrying and the dragon 
whipping  her spiked tail against the wall. I gestured at him again, but 
he came no closer.  
I marched over to him and grabbed the tray, taking a moment to 
glare in displeasure. "Father will hear about this." My voice came out 
low and guttural as if I were using the  dragon’s voice box instead of 
my own.  
The servant hurried off, no doubt to change his underclothes, and 
I returned my attention to my giant, terrifying pet.  
I lowered the platter in front of her. "How do we do this? Do I 
feed you? Can you use a fork?" I r eally hoped I didn’t have to place 
chunks of meat in her mouth. Some of our dinner guests, even the 
nobles, used their hands to eat, but I hated handling the mutton. The 
greasy feel of it made me queasy.  
"Just leave it where I can reach it." 
I backed away and she came up to the plate. Opening her jaw, a 
serpentine tongue uncoiled and wrapped around the roast. Then it all 
disappeared back into her maw and swallowed the food whole. She 
went back for another chunk and repeated the process. Forget 
handling the meat; I might get sick just watching her eat.  
After finishing the mutton, she licked at the juices on the silver 
platter, holding it down with one talon as it clanked against the stone 
floor. Satisfied, Farean settled into lethargy.  
I got up and decided to  check on my bath. I’d barely taken two 
steps when Farean reached out with a front claw and grabbed me. 
Shrieking, I fought against her grip as she brought me back in close 
to her body."  Kalia,  sleep with meeeeee. " 
Still fighting her grasp, I replied, "No,  I have my own bed to sleep 
in." I didn’t want to mention the bath, guilt creeping in as I recalled 
the instruction to clean her that had sent me running away from the 
hatchery.  
She didn’t respond. I craned my head to see her double lids closed 
and her bod y heaving in long breaths. Her claw loosened, but not 
enough for me to escape.  
33  Ash Rober ts 
 I pushed a final time against the talon holding me down before 
giving up. I tried to make myself comfortable. I had no idea how 
long dragons slept, but it looked like I was goin g to be there for a 
while.  
I must have dozed off. One moment Farean’s snores filled the 
silence of the room. The next, the room echoed with noise —most of 
it coming from my father.  
"What is this beast doing in the castle? Get it out of here. Kalia, 
what is the meaning of this? Why are you sleeping on the floor?" He 
wasn’t alone. He had his usual entourage of servants and guards, but 
mother was nowhere to be seen.  
A member of Father’s personal guard, apparently too dumb to 
have learned from last time, stepped  forward and poked the dragon 
with the butt end of his spear.  
Farean lifted her head and yawned, showing rows of teeth, causing 
the soldier to take a step back. She finally released me, and I dropped 
to the floor with a gentle thump. I arched my back and t wisted, trying 
to wake up my sore muscled and numb limbs.  
Father watched me complete my stretches in silence. I faced him, 
unsure of what to say. He eyed my wrinkled and muddy gown and 
shook his head. "It’s a good thing your mother wasn’t feeling well 
and went upstairs. She would have a fit if she saw you like this."  
I smoothed out the bodice as best I could and returned his stare.  
"Why is there a dragon in the castle?" he asked again.  
"Because she followed me home," I said, crossing my arms.  
The smack caught me unprepared. I hadn’t realized he could still 
move that fast. The sound echoed in the empty room as my cheek 
burned.  
Farean roared, her hot breath blowing against me as she lunged 
forward, but father didn’t move or retreat. Even if she was a drago n, 
she was only an infant, and he was a grown man and King of the 
realm.  
Royal Dragoneer   34 
 "I need some time alone with my daughter." He said to those who 
accompanied him, and they filtered out of the room, leaving only the 
three of us. "Do you want to try that again withou t the smart talk?"  
I rubbed my jaw and kept quiet.  
"I don’t know what you are playing at, but you need to get rid of 
that thing. Nobility can’t be Dragoneers. It’s ridiculous. So, you have 
a choice to make." He crossed his arms. "You can have a dragon, or 
you can be my daughter. You choose."  
"Choose?" I asked, incredulous. "This wasn’t my decision. I don’t 
want to be a Dragoneer. I didn’t want to go to the hatching in the 
first place. But you made me go and then sat there and lectured me 
on duty. Well, gues s what. Now I’m stuck with this duty whether you 
want me to have it or not. The dragon stays."  
"It can’t stay here," he bellowed, waving his arms about as if 
swatting at invisible flies. "I have a kingdom to rule. This is not a 
barn or a hatchery, where an imals can roam around at will." Veins on 
his neck bulged and he huffed to catch his breath after expelling so 
much hot air. Farean trumpeted again, adding to the cacophony that 
assaulted my ears.  
"She won’t leave without me," I yelled back, standing on my toes 
and trying to get in his face. It wasn’t effective. I only came up to his 
chest. " Damn  Mother  and her short genes." 
"Then you will have to leave, too." He deflated a little as he said it, 
but the anger still flickered in his eyes.  
I froze in place. " Was he kicking  me out of my home? " Because it was 
raining outside. The thunder and lightning had died down a little, but 
I could still hear the heavy drops pounding out a rhythm on our tiled 
roof. Surely, he wouldn’t send me out in it. If mother had been th ere, 
she would have stood up for me. She wouldn’t let him treat me that 
way. 
"You can’t kick me out," I said, almost a plea. "It’s raining outside. 
Mother will never forgive you."  
"Your mother lost her father to a dragon," he said, looking past 
me to Farea n. "She and I already discussed this on the way home in 
35  Ash Rober ts 
 the carriage. She cannot live with such a beast. But you have a place 
at the hatchery. Authand is expecting your return." He didn’t say 
anything else. He just turned away and left me standing there.  
I blinked to keep the tears from falling, but they came regardless. 
A fat one rolled down my cheek and onto the silk of my sleeve. It 
didn’t matter. My clothes were about to get a whole lot wetter.  

 
 
 
Authand was ex pecting me. What had he said? " She won’t get 
far. "Well, I was about to show him. And my parents. They had 
shamed me into duty, and now they were throwing me out? I would 
show them too.  
I headed for the door and stumbled out into the rainy night, 
Farean ca vorting after me.  
We became thoroughly soaked before I discovered an overhang 
large enough to keep me from getting any wetter. I shivered against 
the buffeting winds while Farean hopped from puddle to puddle in 
the street, flapping her gossamer wings in a feeble attempt to fly. 
Despite myself, I smiled. At least one of us was having fun.  
A covered pedicab approached, forcing Farean to climb onto a 
nearby portico. The drenched Elf carrier gently lowered the handles 
to the ground and opened an umbrella before  opening the door.  
Etlin stepped out and huddled under the oiled cloth as the rain 
poured off onto the servant. Foolishly, I tried to hide; cowering into 
the shadows, but Etlin saw me and dashed over, the servant hurrying 
to keep the cloth in place. Under the protection of the overhang, 
Etlin waved the poor man off, and he promptly ducked into the 
servants’ entrance.  
"What are you doing out here?" Etlin pulled off his jacket and 
wrapped it around me. It was a formal affair with little lining for 
warmth, the  one he’d worn to the hatching, which felt like a lifetime 
ago. I continued to shiver but appreciated the gesture, none the less. 
"You’re a princess, for Farr’s sake. Not some peasant drowning in 
the streets." I was getting tired of people reminding me tha t I was a 
princess. As if that had anything to do with what I’d been stuck with. 
Royal Dragoneer   38 
 Being a princess hadn’t stopped my father tossing me out like 
rubbish. His precious decorum would allow me to catch my death 
mere feet from the hearth where he was undoubtedly  bundled near.  
"My father kicked me out," I told Etlin, expecting sympathy, or 
better yet, outrage.  
He shook his head, looking down as if ashamed to look me in the 
eye. "Go inside, Kalia. The door is right there," he pointed across the 
courtyard. "Go insid e and forget about all this dragon nonsense."  
I stared at the castle’s entrance. A mere twenty feet separated me 
from what my life had been a few short hours ago. I could do it. I 
could walk through that door and forget today had ever happened. I 
could go back to pleasing my parents and Etlin by being the perfect 
girl they expected me to be.  
"You would  leave me alone? " A voice asked, Farean’s snout peeking 
over Etlin’s head, her dragon eyes wide and terrified. It wasn’t the 
question that broke my heart. Or the look. It was the feeling. I could 
feel just what she felt, and it was so much more pain and fear than 
what I’d experienced when my father had shown me the door. I was 
nearly a grown woman, trained to command others and make my 
own choices. Farean was a  child who knew nothing of the world. I 
couldn’t abandon her, even as much as she terrified me.  
"No," I shook my head at Etlin. "I can’t leave Farean."  
"Yes, you can, Kal." He used my pet name, trying to manipulate 
me, to soften me, but it only hardened my  resolve. "You have to. For 
us." 
"What do you mean, ‘for us’? How does any of this affect us? You 
love me, and I love you. Our marriage has been arranged for years."  
"I do love you, Kal. You know that," he glanced away from me, 
frowning. "But this changes everything, don’t you see? Dragoneeers 
live a rough life. They’re constantly at risk and on the move, called to 
wherever the next battle is. That’s what having a dragon means. 
That’s not the kind of life I want."  
"So, you didn’t love me, then?" I said, lif ting my chin and staring 
him down. "You loved the life you would have as the king."  
39  Ash Rober ts 
 "Kal, that’s not fair."  
"Not " fair"?" I yelled at him. "Don’t tell me about ‘not fair.’ I did 
exactly what everyone told me to, playing the dutiful daughter, and 
fiancé, an d princess, and this is what it got me. My parents throw me 
out and you —what? Break up with me?"  
"No," he shook his head, rain dripping from his dark bangs. "My 
parents want me to break it off with you, but I came here to help you 
see that you don’t have t o do this. You can go back to what you 
were. We can go back."  
"But your parents love me —" I stammered, shocked and hurt to 
my core. " Oh no, that’s right. They loved Princess  Kalia,  not Dragoneer  
Kalia. " "Had my entire life been a lie? Did no one really care about me—not for 
what I did, or my title, but for who I was inside? " 
"I like your insides.  "Farean said. She was still looming behind Etlin, 
her wings folded over her head against the rain.  
I gulped. " Not helping. " 
"They do love you," Etlin said, but it wasn’t very convincing. "As 
do I. But if you choose this life, you’re not choosing us." He glanced 
away.  
Up to that moment, I had honestly believed in the power of love 
to overcome anything. " Gods,  I was such a fool." 
"Well, okay then," I said, and Etlin’s  eyes snapped back to mine, 
full of hope. "I guess that’s it." I pushed past him, crossing to stand 
next to Farean. "I suppose I’ll see you around."  
Colonel Authand, Father, Etlin —I’d been told what to do for the 
last time. This was my life. I would play b y my rules, not theirs.  
Etlin stood in stunned silence as the rain plastered his hair to his 
forehead and his clothes to his skin. He stared at me and my dragon, 
processing this surprise —my sudden change from someone who 
patiently and quietly did what what ever was proper and expected, to 
someone who could and would defy everyone around them.  
I almost see the pieces fall into place in his mind, preparing the 
speech he would give his parents, announcing that he’d taken out the 
Royal Dragoneer   40 
 trash like a good soon. The stor y would grow as he told our friends 
of the monster I’d become.  
Etlin opened his mouth and closed it again. I watched him stand 
in the downpour. I wanted to apologize, but part of me insisted I 
hold my ground. I’d say I was sorry, but only if he did first.  
"I can’t believe you’d choose this animal over your own kind," he 
said, gesturing at Farean.  
I pulled off his useless jacket and threw it at him. "If you are an 
example of ‘my kind, I want no part of it."  
"Fine!" he said. Clenching his jaw in fury, he cros sed to the 
servant’s entrance and yanked the door open. "We are leaving," he 
called to his servant. "Now!"  
I got a glimpse of the shocked servants sharing mead over a 
blazing fire. Were they already gossiping about me and my sudden 
descent into madness? I had no doubt I would be the talk of the city 
come morning. The Princess and the dragon. It sounded like a 
morality tale mothers would warn their daughters with.  
Etlin’s servant gulped the last swig from his mug and rushed out,  
trying to get the umbrella over Etlin, but there was no point now. He 
was soaked.  
"Stop it," Etlin commanded. "Just get me home."  
The servant nodded and opened the door to the carriage. Etlin 
placed a foot on the threshold and stopped, turning back to me.  
"Goodbye, Kalia. I don’t imagine we will meet again." He took his 
seat with an audible squish, and the door snapped close behind him. 
The servant took one last wary look at Farean beside me before 
grabbing the poles of the cab and heading for the gates.  
Farean leapt forward, chasing after the cab like a chicken after a 
lizard. I wasn’t sure if it was pure instinct, or if she was trying to 
terrorize the poor man, but the driver ran faster than any I’d ever 
seen pulling a heavy cart. Thankfully, when he turn ed the corner out 
of sight, my dragon lost interest like any toddler would, and came 
wandering back.  
41  Ash Rober ts 
 "My dragon.  "Those were strange words. But I had chosen her. 
Well, first she had chosen me. But I’d come around eventually.  
The rain had mostly stopped, bu t everything was wet and 
dripping. I slid down the wall and sat on the wet cobbled ground. It 
was starting to hit me just how much I’d lost. For all my bravado and 
anger, I didn’t know what to do. I was just a lonely girl abandoned by 
everyone and charged with the task of caring for something —no 
someone —that I knew nothing about.  
How would I feed her? How would I feed myself? And we 
couldn’t sleep in the courtyard like beggars. I slapped my hands 
against the wet brick, sending a wave of hot pain shooting fr om my 
palms up my arms. "Oww."  
Farean turned her attention from the fascinating dripping of a 
water spout. " That" "hurt". 
"I wasn’t trying to hurt you. I’m sorry. I’m just —I don’t know 
what to do. I’m supposed to take care of us both now, and I don’t 
even know how to take care of me."  
"I’ll take care of you". She climbed up the stairs to my side, and 
gently butted her head against mine, rubbing me with her skull. " See? 
Good rubs." 
"That’s  very nice, "I remembered to mind -speak to her. And it was. 
But it still didn’t solve our problem. " You have to understand,  Farean.  I 
don’t know how to be a Dragoneer.  I don’t even know how to live outside  a castle 
without  servants. " "You’d  be better off if we could somehow  break  our bond and 
find you someone  else. " 
She stopped rubbing me, staring at me with her huge birdlike eyes. 
I didn’t know if dragons could cry, but she looked like she was about 
to." You told the sad man and the angry boy you wouldn’t  leave me. You are a 
good Dragoneer  for me. The best for me. It’s why I want you." 
Well, at least someone wanted me, even if it was a dragon.  
I reached out and scratched the protective ridge over her eye, 
somehow knowing she’d love it. "We’ll figure it out," I told her, as 
she rumbled a dragon purr. "Together, we’ll figur e this out."  
Royal Dragoneer   42 
 Conflicting emotions boiled inside me, and I couldn’t tell where 
mine ended and hers began. So, I just stood there petting her as I 
tried to figure out a path forward that wouldn’t be disastrous for 
both of us.  
I caught motion in my peripheral  vision; Farean and I swiveled our 
heads towards it in unison.  
A dark, hooded, figure approached us.  
Instinctively, I moved in front of Farean to protect her, though I 
had no idea how or with what.  
"Stay back," I warned, "or I’ll —" I’ll draw a blank on wha t to 
threaten you with, apparently.  
Small, calloused hands reached up and pulled the hood back just 
enough to reveal the slender, familiar, face of my chamber maid.  
"What are you doing out here?" I demanded. "I thought you were 
some kind of attacker."  
She laughed. "Attacker? At the castle? Princess Kalia, you know 
that to get to this courtyard, you have to pass three different sets of 
guards."  
Farean leaned her long sinuous neck over my shoulder to peer at 
the maid, her snout close enough to sniff at the yo ung girl’s pores. 
To her credit, the maid took only one step back.  
"You remember Farean, I’m sure," I said.  
My maid nodded mutely.  
A sudden gust of wind knocked over a nearby barrel, sending it 
rolling, and Farean was off, chasing after it. She definitely liked to 
chase things.  
With the dragon some distance away, my maid found her voice 
again. Well, it looks like you were able to get cleaned up after all."  
I glared at her and she returned an awkward smile. I wanted to be 
angry with her but the ridiculousnes s of the situation caught up to me 
and I started to laugh.  
"Yeah, I guess I did. Apparently, dragons aren’t allowed in the 
castle."  
43  Ash Rober ts 
 "That’s a dumb rule." She smiled. It faded as the realization set in 
about what that meant for my future. "What will you do now? Will 
you go back to the hatching grounds and live with the other 
Dragoneers?" Was she worried about me, or her position as my 
maid? Father would probably just assign her somewhere else. She was 
good help, and he wouldn’t waste that just because he’d b anished his 
only daughter.  
"I can’t go back there." I shook my head. "Between the way 
Farean chose me and the way I behaved afterward, I don’t dare show 
myself. But where else can I keep a dragon? I have no idea."  
"My father is the royal swineherd," she of fered. "The barns are 
plenty big enough. Farean can stay there until you find somewhere 
more suitable."  
"She wouldn’t stay there without me," I pointed out.  
"Well, dad has an empty room now that I live in the maids’ 
quarters."  
Was she making fun of me, or trying to help? Because I’m not 
sure what would be funnier to a servant than her mistress living as a 
swineherd while she remained in the comfort of the castle. Still, I was 
pretty short on options and didn’t want to offend her. She was the 
only person who  had treated me decently since this whole dragon 
thing had happened.  
"Okay. I’ll figure out a way to repay you and your family. Thank 
you—" "Oh crap. I don’t remember  her name.  " 
"It’s Lunara, your majesty. I have been cleaning your quarters for 
over a yea r now."  
"I know. I’m sorry." Had it been that long? All the maids tended 
to run together in my mind. They all wore the same uniform and all 
sort of looked the same. Still, I should know her name.  
Lunara sighed. "It’s okay. I rather expect it at this point. " 
I started to protest, but she turned and disappeared back into the 
castle.  
"Come here, you," I called to Farean.  
Royal Dragoneer   44 
 She bounded over to me and attempted to push her muzzle into 
my hand. I backed away in fear, automatically, but she just kept 
coming until sh e got what she wanted. After a lifetime of avoiding 
dragons, it was going to take some getting used to being around one 
this much. But Farean was oblivious to my fear and prejudice. Either 
that or she was good at ignoring it.  
"Hey, can that giant nose of y ours smell pigs?" I asked, and she 
raised her snout into the wind, her lips curving up in a dragon grin.  
 
 
 
Farean’s cries, both audible and mental, woke me up before dawn.  
I rubbed the sleep from my eyes and wonder ed what time it was. I 
got up from my bed, if you could call it that. Pushing open a window 
overseeing Farean’s barn, I noticed that the sun wasn’t even up yet.  
The early spring air cut through the thin nightgown Lunara had 
left behind when she’d moved to the castle. I turned to retrieve the 
matching robe, but Farean let out another distressed Ka—li—a, 
stretching my name into three long syllables. I hoped this was some 
sort of phase. The first few weeks after the hatching had been tough 
for me emotionally, But after a week straight of being forced out of 
bed in the middle of the night, two, sometimes three or even four 
times, I knew I wouldn’t last much longer before I snapped.  
Obviously, the decision to leave the hatching grounds had been a 
mistake. But I couldn’t go back now. Too much time had passed. 
They might not even be there anymore. After the hatching was over, 
the Dragoneers went somewhere else to train, and I didn’t know 
where that might be. Father would know, of course, but he’d made 
his opinion o n the matter clear.  
I made my way through the dark house, careful not to wake 
Lunara’s father. Arriving at the stable, I lifted the heavy bar on the 
door and discovered Farean rolled over onto her side with a front 
claw pulling at her skull. Her two rear l egs were trying to join the 
fight too.  
"What are you doing?" I asked, inching closer to my thrashing 
dragon.  
"It hurts, " was all she would answer.  
"Hold still, I need to check your ear."  
Royal Dragoneer   46 
 She kept pulling at it, and I had to yank her front leg away to get i t 
free. In the passing month, Farean’s features had morphed to look 
more like mine. Dark blue scales had become pale and almost 
translucent. Her ears had lengthened and formed into a point. The 
process hadn’t been easy. Every growth spurt caused odd pains and 
scales to bind if she moved wrong. I’d taken to grooming her twice 
per day and still had these late night and early morning wakeups to 
look forward to.  
I found the problem. At the juncture between the ear and skull, 
one of her scales had pulled up and folded against her hide, twisting 
the sensitive part of the ear flesh.  
I gently lifted the scale and let it fall into place. The task complete, 
Farean’s cries immediately ceased. Since I was already up, I took the 
time to check for loose or damaged scales.  "This was a lot easier 
when you were smaller."  
"You couldn’t  ride me when I was smaller ." She had me there. In the 
past week, Farean had taken to the skies. At first, it was only short 
flutters through the air, like one of the chickens when the dragon 
spooked them. From there, she had worked her way up in skill and 
strength to the point where I’d risked a short flight with her two days 
ago. 
We made it mere feet off the ground before I lost my tenuous grip 
on her neck ridge and fell into the pig’s mud. The ron, Lunara’s father 
laughed at me as I spit the foul -smelling earth from my mouth.  
"From now, I’m staying on the ground," I told him. "If Elves were 
meant to fly, we’d have wings."  
In response, he had tossed a bucket of icy water over me.  
"What was that f or?" I sputtered, wiping brown streaks from my 
face. 
"I’m not letting you inside like that." He picked up a second 
bucket and dumped it over my head.  
I stormed off; trying to squeeze the dirty water from the rough 
hemp clothing I’d been reduced to wearing.  
47  Ash Rober ts 
 The next morning, a rawhide seat bound with rope greeted me at 
the breakfast, thrown over my chair. "What’s this?"  
"Something to make sure you don’t fall off next time," Theron 
said. "I’ve seen dragons overhead wearing similar. Theirs are 
undoubtedly bett er made. But this will get you started." He didn’t 
look up from his breakfast, not wanting to draw attention to his 
kindness.  
I spooned some of the meal into a bowl and sat across from him. 
How I missed hot breakfasts of steaming eggs topped with salty 
bacon, tarts, and pastries piled high plate. Instead, the tepid corn 
gruel crunched like sand in my mouth. And yet, this man with little 
money or food, had spent part of his hard work day making me a 
dragon saddle. Not only that, he’d been feeding, housing, a nd 
clothing me for a month, which was more than my father or Etlin 
had been willing to do, two men who supposedly loved me.  
"Theron, thank you," I said, a lump in my throat that wasn’t corn 
gruel. "But I’m not sure I should fly without training. It’s dange rous."  
He put down his spoon. "You are a Dragoneer now, Your 
Majesty. Dragoneers fly."  
I took a bite of thick porridge and swallowed it down, along with 
the lump. I didn’t want to cry in front of Theron. "I’m not a 
Dragoneer. I mean, I don’t feel like one.  More like a swineherd who 
just happens to have a dragon."  
"Fate chooses us, your majesty. I’ve found that fighting it brings 
nothing but unhappiness. And you are no swineherd, I assure you. 
The pigs don’t like you. You smell too much like dragon." He 
returned to his gruel.  
I stirred my spoon around in my bowl, his words no easier to 
digest than the food. He finished his breakfast and got up, putting his 
dish in the wash basin. On his way out to the pigs, he paused at the 
door. "Besides, you’ll have to fly to reach anyone with answers." 
With that, he plunged into the daylight, leaving me to my cold gruel 
and conflicting thoughts.  
Royal Dragoneer   48 
 Unable to stomach any more of either, I grabbed the makeshift 
saddle and found Farean sunning herself in the dirt. I dropped it ne xt 
to her snout, rousing her from her slumber. "You want to try this 
again?"  
It took me a bit to figure out the proper knots, but I soon found 
myself tied to a dragon’s back. I could barely move in the rigging, but 
at least I wouldn’t fall off this time. Farean reared up onto her hind 
legs and shook her back. I lost my grip and dangled backwards in my 
saddle, but I didn’t fall. "Stop that. Are you trying to throw me?"  
"It feels weird.  I don’t like it." She pouted but returned to four legs.  
"Well, get used to it, I’m not getting thrown off again like 
yesterday." She seemed to accept this and lumbered out to the street 
where should could get a better running start. Farean galloped down 
the lane and leapt into the air. With a powerful downbeat of her 
wings, we  were airborne. She kept low at first, in case the rigging 
didn’t hold. After completing a low circle around the farm, she 
pushed us higher and higher.  
Wind whipped at my face and hair, sending it in all directions. 
Brushing it when I landed would be a cho re. But if this was what 
flying felt like, it was a small price to pay.  
Then I swallowed a bug.  
I opened my mouth to whoop as we performed acrobatic loops 
over the city and a fat horsefly went straight inside. I felt the insect 
impact the back of my throat , and I started coughing. But instead of 
dislodging the loathsome creature, the hacking pushed it further 
down until I had no other choice but to swallow. I continued 
coughing and pounded on my chest, hoping to spit it back up.  
"What’s  wrong? " Farean turne d her head my direction, but her body 
followed and she banked hard right, sending me sideways and both 
of us heading head -first towards the ground.  
"Pull —"cough"—up, pull up."  
She returned her attention to the task at hand and we leveled out.  
"Pay attentio n to where you’re going," I scolded her. "You don’t 
need to look at me when we mind speak."  
49  Ash Rober ts 
 The beating of her wings slowed, and we dipped in the sky. I 
started to stay something, but she maintained the new altitude. " I felt 
you coughing  and got worried ". 
I pushed an image of hugging her, safely on the ground, and I 
could feel her body vibrate in the guttural growl she gave when 
content.  
"I just swallowed a bug," I admitted, glad no one could see my 
ears turn red. Not that anyone could have told with all th e windburn 
I was getting. Note to self, get some kind of hat or mask for flying.  
"Lucky.  "Farean flew faster, gaining confidence. " Bugs are tasty." 
I laughed. There hadn’t been much opportunity for mirth in the 
past month and it felt good to let it out. "I ’ll try to save it for you 
next time." The thought of trying to save bugs in my mouth for my 
dragon made me laugh even harder, doubling me over the saddle 
snorting and heaving for breath.  
Farean just shook her head and made another pass over the city.  
When  I finally regained control, the sun was getting low, and I 
directed her to land, skimming just over the chicken pen just to see 
their reaction.  
The rest of the week had been like that as we learned how to fly 
and navigate the air. And fortunately, I hadn’ t eaten any more bugs.  
As beautiful as that day was, it left me with a horrible, aching 
sadness. Farean was made to fly. She was born to be a dragon and 
spend her life doing dragonish things. It came naturally to her. But I 
was holding her back. Not just h er flying with my awkward guesses at 
how to ride, but with all of it. Her cries in the night kept me reeling. I 
never knew what to do and lived in constant fear that something 
would happen to her and it would be my fault. I hadn’t been trained 
as a hatchli ng candidate or a Dragoneer. I’d been raised to follow my 
duty and rule a country. This morning, it had been as simple as 
popping her scale back into place, but as she grew bigger, it would 
only get more complicated to care for her. And as much as I’d grow n 
attached to her —really attached —I couldn’t bear the thought that 
Farean would live as a lesser dragon because of me.  

 
 
 
I was beginning to forget my old life in the castle as a princess. 
Even the fact that I tho ught of it as "my old life" was strange. It 
seemed almost like a dream and flying on Farean had always been my 
reality. But then Lunara brought my old life to the forefront again, 
delivering a letter from Colonel Authand, now at the training grounds 
to the  West.  
 
Princess  Kalia,  
As a result of your alternate lodging arrangements, you missed 
the call to come to Tulta with the others. Raising a dragon 
hatchling for the first month on your own isn’t optimum, but 
given your unusual circumstances, I allowed it. Training a flying 
dragon, however, is another matter. Collect your belongings and 
meet Lewon at the castle for further instructions. You will follow 
him back to training camp tomorrow at first light.  
Colonel Authand  
 
Looking up from the missive, I asked Lu nara, "I don’t suppose 
you want to go, do you?" She shook her head; I couldn’t blame her. 
I’d never seen the training grounds. Until a month ago, I’d barely 
been outside the castle walls. I had just started to get used to my life 
as an exiled princess. The ron made me help on the farm, but he still 
treated me like royalty. Lunara had become something of a friend, 
something I’d never really had before. And now, here was the 
Colonel ordering me around like a servant. He could have at least 
said, "Please, colle ct your belongings." Or, "You can follow him back 
if you want." That would have been polite.  
Royal Dragoneer   52 
 "Tell them I’m not going." I crumpled the letter into a ball and 
shoved it into a pocket. I crossed my arms and waited for Lunara to 
scurry off with the news.  
She didn’t move other than to match my pose. "The Dragoneers 
don’t make requests. You need to go. Lewon is already at the castle 
waiting for you."  
"But your father needs my help here." I glanced at Theron. We 
were in his open -air workshop, and he was busy repa iring a trough 
that had sprung a leak.  
He looked up from his work. "I have to fix most of what you 
‘help’ me with. If you stay, I going to start charging you rent." Having 
said his piece, he returned to the wood.  
I pursed my lips and shook my head. "Well, then. I guess I’m 
going." I thought about what happened the last time I’d been at the 
castle —the confrontation with my father and then Etlin. I did not 
want to go back there. At all. But I felt stronger now somehow —I 
had changed since then —maybe even becau se of their rejection. 
Though I hoped I wouldn’t see either of them, or my mother, I 
wasn’t afraid to anymore. But I certainly wasn’t taking Farean. "Stay 
here," I told her. "I’ll be back tonight, and we will leave to meet other 
dragons tomorrow."  
"Okay ". She rolled over in the dried mud of the pen she had co-
opted  from the pigs.  
I sighed; if we were going anywhere, I’d have to bathe her in the 
pond. I wasn’t about to introduce myself to other Dragoneers on a 
muddy beast.  
"But bring me something  to eat. All this pork is getting  boring ". 
"Don’t be rude," I scolded her, glancing at Theron, who, of 
course, couldn’t hear her. "We’re guests here."  
"Sorry. " Her voice sounded more petulant than remorseful.  
That was something I’d have to work with her. " Oh, gods. When had 
I become  my mother? " 
I turned my attention back to Lunara, who waited with her arms 
still crossed.  
53  Ash Rober ts 
 "Don’t worry too much," she said. "She’s still young. Besides, I 
lived here for fourteen years, and pork for dinner every night does 
get old."  
"She st ill needs to learn some manners. Wait! You could hear our 
conversation?"  
Lunara lowered her head, but otherwise gave no indication of 
hearing me. She turned to leave the workshop, and I followed after 
her. "How did you know what Farean said?"  
"It’s a gift." She kept her voice low, as if sharing a secret that she 
didn’t want others to hear, even though we were the only ones 
around. "I’ve always been able to hear them. I wanted to be a 
Dragoneer, but father insisted I become one of the court maids 
instea d." 
It suddenly struck me that you didn’t have to be a princess to get 
stuck in society’s expectations for you. I grabbed Lunara’s hand, and 
we both looked down, shocked. But I didn’t let go. "I’ll see what I 
can do about getting you to the next hatching. Maybe you can be one 
of my mother’s ladies in waiting and ‘accidently’ bond with a dragon 
like I did."  
She looked up into my face, "I couldn’t impose like that."  
"Come on. I’m going to need a friendly face at this training camp."  
She smiled and dropped my hand. We walked the rest of the way 
to the castle in silence as we dealt with our own thoughts about the 
future.  
Thankfully, Mother and Father were away for the day on 
diplomatic business. The guards at the gate and doors let us pass 
without comment, thoug h I could see them eyeing each other as I 
passed. Was I still the gossip of the castle after all this time? Funny, 
because I barely thought of the people here anymore.  
Lewon lounged in the receiving room with his boot -clad feet 
propped up on an antique ben ch. When we entered, he stood and 
held out his hand. Remembering the embarrassment from last time, I 
shook it. "So, we meet again," I said. "You must be one of the 
Royal Dragoneer   54 
 Colonel’s favorites to get to come retrieve me." I had meant it to be 
funny, or sarcastic, b ut I instead it just came out mean.  
He recoiled at the remark, plastering a fake smile on his face as he 
said, "Most of us don’t get to do whatever we want without 
consequence."  
"I’m sorry. I didn’t mean it like that." I tried to backtrack. "It’s 
just—you witnessed my meltdown at the hatching, and I’m not 
proud of it. It’s something I’d like to forget."  
Lunara arched an eyebrow at me, fidgeting with desire to ask 
about that. I thought the castle gossip vine would have delivered that 
story to her weeks ago, but apparently not. Most likely, Father had 
forbidden those in our party from speaking of it. " Did he know where 
I’d been for the past month?  Did he even care?" 
Lewon just kept smiling, but it seemed a little more genuine now. I 
liked how his smirk brought  out his dimples. He had nice hazel eyes 
and dirty blonde hair. He broke eye contact and looked downward 
towards the floor. At least, I hoped it was the floor. He just as well 
could have been checking out my chest. "You can try to forget," he 
said. "But no ne of the other Dragoneers are likely to let you. I mean, 
I saw it, but"  everyone " heard about it. It’s literally been used in training 
as a precautionary tale."  
My ears reddened. Great. If I did go to this training camp, I would 
be surrounded by peers who  had already judged me.  
"Have you found a place in the city to stay tonight?" I tried to 
change the subject.  
"Not yet, Your Majesty. I wanted to make sure I didn’t miss you 
when you arrived. But I’ll probably stay at the Tooth and Nail. I 
know the owner."  
I’d heard rumors about the place. It was owned by a Nightblood 
and didn’t have the best reputation.  
But I didn’t say that. I was trying to make a good second 
impression. "Please, call me Kalia," I said instead, batting my lashes. I 
was terrible at flirting , and I hadn’t really meant to. But Etlin had left 
me weeks ago, and I’d had no contact with boys my age since. "Have 
55  Ash Rober ts 
 you had anything to eat since you arrived? Flying always makes me so 
hungry."  
"No, I haven’t," he said, giving me a real, genuine grin fin ally. 
"And flying makes everyone hungry. It’s the exhilaration and the 
energy it requires to sync perfectly with your dragon."  
"Exactly!" I smiled back. Now we were getting somewhere, and it 
was so nice to talk to someone who understood what it meant to ri de 
a dragon. I turned to Lunara. "Please, take Lewon to the kitchen and 
get him something to eat. And grab something non -porky for Farean, 
if you can. Mutton perhaps? I need to get a few things from my 
room, and then I’ll be heading back to —where I’ve been  staying." I 
hoped Lunara would forgive me for not wanting to say, "the swine 
farm." "How about if I meet by the gates in the morning," I 
suggested to Lewon. That way he wouldn’t see where I’d been living 
and gain one more story of my spiral into peasantry  to tell the other 
Dragoneers.  
"Um, okay." Lewon said, looking worried. "But if you don’t show 
up, it will be my hide. My instructions were not to let you out of my 
sight once I found you."  
"I will be there with my dragon," I promised.  
"Follow me, sir." Lu nara curtsied to him and pointed in the 
direction of the kitchen. He followed eagerly, and as they crossed the 
threshold, I heard my former maid ask, "So what did the princess do 
at the hatching?"  
I shook my head and moved in the other direction. It felt b oth 
strange and familiar to be in my old home, like I was a ghost visiting 
a past life. Even the servants I passed ignored me, as if I were a 
phantom or a shadow. They probably didn’t want any liability or 
blame for me being there when my parents were away . But they 
couldn’t exactly kick me out either. At the top of the stairs, I 
detoured to the baths. There was no way I could pass up this chance 
to revel in hot water and the scented soaps that my mother always 
bought. I turned on the water, and then went t o my room. It was just 
as I’d left it, complete with the covers thrown back from when I’d 
Royal Dragoneer   56 
 been summoned downstairs to tend to Farean. Mother hadn’t even 
let the maids in? That seemed odd.  
I sat on the bed, trying to decide what I needed to pack. I 
absentmi ndedly ran my hand over the soft fleece of the bedcovers. 
The sensation was a stark contrast from the rough wool I’d been 
sleeping under. " Blanket ", I thought. " Definitely  packing  this blanket ". 
 
 
 
Lunara found me  dozing in the bath. "I finished packing for you," 
she said as she set a towel on the tub’s edge.  
"You didn’t have to do that, I was going to finish."  
She shook her head. "I did if you wanted to get back before dark."  
"Well, thank you. I was in here a litt le longer than I meant to be." 
I held up my pruney fingers.  
"I know." She smiled. "The baths are of my favorite parts of 
working in the castle. I’ll meet you in your room," she said, leaving to 
give me some privacy as I dried off.  
Back in my chamber, she h ad laid out a few clean dresses next to a 
large sack bag. I had never seen it before. When I traveled in the past, 
I’d used expensive and heavy cedar trunks to cart around our 
mountains of clothes. She must have gotten the bag from one of the 
other servant s. She was such a good maid. I’d have to put in a good 
word for her with Father —I stopped in my tracks, marveling at how 
easily and quickly I’d fallen back into the thought patterns of an over -
privileged princess. I wasn’t technically a noble anymore. Luna ra 
wasn’t my servant; she was my friend. And Father couldn’t care less 
about my recommendations. Being at the castle again was playing 
strange tricks on my mind. I needed to get out of there.  
As Lunara helped me lace up my corset, she said, "You are going 
to need pants for riding Farean. And for every day. I don’t think 
Dragoneers wear dresses much."  
"I don’t own any pants," I groaned. "All a princess is supposed to 
wear are dresses. And gods forbid I ever get them dirty."  
Royal Dragoneer   58 
 She started to speak but I held up  a hand, placing it on her 
shoulder. "I appreciate being able to wear your clothes at your 
father’s, but you are three inches taller than me and bigger in the 
chest." I looked down my dress. It felt odd to be wearing one again, 
but at least it fit without stepping on the hem or using a belt to keep 
it from sliding off. "I’m sorry, but your clothes look ridiculous on 
me." 
"Yes, they do." She grinned. Then her face grew serious "Your 
parents just arrived home. Wouldn’t you like to talk to them before 
you leav e?" 
"Um, no!" I snapped, panicking and drawing the thin rope that 
closed the bag, ready to take it and run. "Do they know I’m here?"  
"Not yet," Lunara said. "But they will soon enough."  
"I’m not sure they want to talk to me." I frowned. She grabbed my 
bag and led me down to my parents’ sitting room. As I entered, 
Father looked up from the scroll he was reading. His eyes burned 
with anger but he said nothing. Instead, he brought his gaze back 
down to what he was reading, as if ignoring me would make me cease  
to exist and ruin his perfect family.  
Mother saw me and rushed to her feet. "Oh, Kalia, we’ve missed 
you so much." She wrapped her arms around me in a bear hug that 
threatened to cut off my ability to breathe. I hugged her back, 
lowering my head to her sh oulder. I willed myself not to cry, only 
partially succeeding.  
I looked up briefly to where my father continued ignoring me. 
"One of you has at least," I murmured.  
She pulled back slightly and studied my face. "What was that?"  
"Nothing," I lied. I didn’t s ee the point in starting an argument. "I 
just miss you so much."  
"Then come home, silly." She rocked us side to side as she spoke, 
providing a cadence to the singsong quality of her statement.  
"Father won’t let me." Why did my mouth refuse to cooperate on 
Mission: Don’t Start an Argument?  
59  Ash Rober ts 
 "Of course, he will." She turned us to the side and craned her head 
towards Father’s chair. "Won’t you, dear?" In answer, he shook the 
slack from the scroll and continued reading. She seemed to take this 
as an affirmation.  "All you have to do is get rid of that pesky dragon 
and everything will go back to normal."  
I pulled away from her. "I’m trying to. But I resent the idea that I 
am only worth your love if I’m capable of getting rid something. 
Something that only happened because FATHER made me go 
somewhere I didn’t want to. This is really his fault."  
From behind the parchment, my father growled. I took a step 
back from Mother, crossing my arms over my chest. "Sometimes 
things happen and we have to deal with them. You taugh t me that 
lesson. Why does it apply to me and not to you?"  
"Don’t you take that tone of voice with me, young lady." Her eyes 
narrowed. She leaned forward with her hands on her hips. "I will not 
be sassed by my daughter."  
My arms exploded into the air. "Wel l, it’s a good thing that Farean 
keeps me from being your daughter anymore." I stomped to the door 
and slammed it closed in the most unladylike fashion I could muster. 
I couldn’t believe they were being this way. Well, if they didn’t want 
me, I could live without all of their stupid rules anyway.  
Lunara stood in the hallway with my pack. She studied her shoes 
intently. "I -" 
"Hold that thought." I held a finger up. I marched back to the 
door and pushed it open. Mother hadn’t moved since my outburst 
and Father looked up from the scroll again. "And another thing. You 
should promote Lunara. She’s a great maid. Plus, she took care  of me 
when you wouldn’t." I started pulling the door back closed but 
paused. "Not that you care about that." I slammed the door for the 
second time in as many minutes.  
Lunara’s ears were completely red. "You shouldn’t have done that, 
your majesty."  
I shoo k my head. "It’s the least I could do for all you’ve done for 
me." I looked down. "I just hope I didn’t get you fired instead."  
Royal Dragoneer   60 
 "I really do appreciate everything you and your father have done 
for me, and I promise to do what I can to get you an in with th e 
dragons."  
I didn’t think I was going to get any more conversation from her, 
so I changed the subject. "Alright, let me take my bag so you can get 
back to work, I’m sure you’re behind from having to come fetch 
me." 
She gripped the strap and then let go ov er it. She slid it off her 
shoulder and handed the pack to me. The weight surprised me, and I 
almost dropped it. I recovered and slid it onto my back. My knees 
protested the addition but I locked them into place. Lunara carried it 
so effortlessly; I was em barrassed that I was so weak compared to 
her. 
She smiled and gave me a warm hug, whispering "Thank you," in 
my ear. I wasn’t sure what for, though. It was she who had helped 
me. 
I stood in the corridor for a moment, processing the realization 
that I was le aving my home for good. This time I wasn’t being 
thrown out. I was choosing to leave. Suddenly, the doorknob across 
the hall rattled, and I barreled toward the back servants’ stairs, taking 
them two at a time, my gear on my back threatening to tumble over 
me. 
At the bottom, I glanced over my shoulder to check if I’d been 
followed. And I walked right into Lewon.  
"Oomph." Off balance and propelled by the heavy carpet bag, I 
didn’t just walk into him; we collided with a solid smack. My body 
literally plastered  itself against his, and then seemed to cling there for 
a moment before it decided to bounce off, hurling me backwards. 
Instinctively, he put his arms out and around me to catch me. Which 
worked. It worked very well indeed. I was captured by muscled 
biceps  and pinned against a well -defined chest. Unlike Etlin, Lewon 
was obviously accustomed to hard labor. I caught my breath, looking 
up at his stubbled chin. His silk shirt fell slightly open at the neck 
61  Ash Rober ts 
 right where my face was, and he smelled —he smelled like  oiled 
leather and the earthy scent of dragons.  
"I—my parents —I have to get out of here," I stammered.  
Slowly and almost reluctantly, he removed his arms from around 
me, a strange look on his face. "You’ve had a bath. And you have a 
dress on that actually fits." This time I was sure he was checking out 
my chest. "You clean up nice." He smiled, his dimples winking at me. 
"I almost didn’t recognize you."  
"Yeah, well, I am a princess," I said. "We’re raised to clean up 
nice."  
"Of course, Your Majesty," he said , his back gone stiff and his 
smile gone.  
"Oh, for Farr’s sake. Will you knock it off? I have a dragon just 
like you, remember? Everybody has made it obvious that I can’t be 
nobility and a Dragoneer. This is my new life now. I’m not above 
anybody else."  
"Fair enough," he said. "I’ll try to remember that." He didn’t relax.  
"Sorry for being curt. You surprised me. Guests usually aren’t 
allowed in this part of the castle."  
"I was exploring the castle when I heard shouting."  
I grimaced. Somebody overhearing fam ily business ranked as one 
of the few things could possibly get my parents madder than they 
already were "No, it’s fine. I was just heading back to Farean."  
"I’ll walk with you as into town," Lewon said. "If your mystery lair 
lies in the same direction, th at is." " My mystery  lair?" Oh, I really 
couldn’t let him know it was a pig farm now.  
"They are in the same direction," I said, feeling glad they were. 
"But what about your dragon?"  
"Calen will find me when he’s ready," Lewon laughed. "He got a 
whiff of a f emale dragon in heat just outside the city limits. He 
couldn’t get back there fast enough after he dropped me at the 
castle."  
I did not know how to respond to that. Farean was my 
companion, my dragon, but I hadn’t even thought about her mating 
Royal Dragoneer   62 
 someday. And  how did that work when you had a telepathic and 
emotional link with the creature mating? Or in reverse? What about 
me when I’d been pressed up against Lewon. Had Farean felt that? 
"Oh my god, this is not good." 
"So, can I accompany you?" Lewon asked,  a glint in his eyes as 
they stared into mine.  
"Yes, of course, it’s a date." I clapped my hands over my mouth, 
realizing what I’d just said. I pretended to wipe my mouth and let my 
hands fall back to my side. "Not a date. Just an evening stroll."  
I was bl ushing. I could feel the heat on my face. I could feel the 
heat other places as well. What had gotten into me?  
"You’re cute when you blush," Lewon said, reaching out to brush 
a tendril of my hair away from my pink cheek.  
My eyes grew wide. I couldn’t breat he or move a muscle. Lewon’s 
look was difficult to read. His body arched over mine, as if trying to 
protect me from the rest of the world. His eyes glinted with 
something wild yet determined, and his mouth curved into a sexy but 
still boyish smile. For a m oment, I couldn’t tell if he was happy or 
frustrated with me. I took comfort in thinking maybe he was just as 
confused as I was.  
I exhaled slowly, and I counted backwards, using all the tricks my 
etiquette tutor had taught me for calming down in a tense si tuation.  
It must have worked, because he blinked and moved a step back 
from me.  
"Shall we go?" I asked, gesturing towards the servants’ back exit.  
"Of course. Here, let me take that." He reached for my bag, but I 
pulled away.  
"I can do it. I want to learn to carry my own weight."  
"Good," he said, giving me a friendly smile. "Because as a 
Dragoneer, sometimes you have to carry your weight and your 
dragon’s. Not literally, of course. That would crush you. But you 
know what I mean."  
63  Ash Rober ts 
 And I really did. Caring fo r Farean was a burden, hard labor, and a 
challenge all rolled into one —but I was determined to do what was 
best for her. No matter what.  

 
 
 
During our evening stroll, Lewon told me about his life growing 
up on the outer edge of Darneta, almost to the back woods of Fawla. 
I just listened. I couldn’t really compare my life to his. What would I 
say? That I had lived a sheltered life in a castle and caught Farean’s 
attention by acting like a brat? He already knew that.  
The road to the Tooth led to the outskirts of town, almost to the 
farmland. My pig farm home was just a bit beyond it.  
"So, what are you doing living all the way out here?" Lewon asked. 
"Surely your father could provide better facilities for his daughter a nd 
her dragon."  
"My father wants nothing to do with me or my dragon," I said. 
"He kicked me out of the castle onto the street because I wouldn’t 
give her up."  
Lewon stopped in his tracks. "How dare he?"  
"He’s the King and a very stubborn man. That’s how. P lease, let’s 
just drop it. I really don’t want to talk about that."  
"To throw you and your dragon on the street —it’s unthinkable." 
Lewon said, not dropping it at all. "Dragons are the most precious 
resource in all of Darneta. Nay, in the entire world. Colo nel Authand 
will hear about this."  
It was getting dark, just that time before the sun completely sets 
when everything looks shadowy and weird. The brush rustled in the 
woods at the side of the road, but there was no wind. I figured it was 
probably squirrel s and just kept going. A branch snapped. A large 
one. Too big to be broken by a small animal. I stopped.  
Royal Dragoneer   66 
 Lewon took a few more steps before realizing I wasn’t moving 
and halted as well. "What’s wrong?"  
"There’s something in the woods. I think it’s followin g us.’  
"It’s probably just an ani —" A Goblin leapt from a nearby tree, 
pinning me to the ground. I shrieked and clawed at him, but he was 
heavy, his maw coming towards my face as if to take a bite. I heard a 
thump and metal sliding against metal. The Gobli n’s weight shifted, 
and he slumped next to me.  
Lewon stood over me with a dagger in his left hand, dripping 
blood. "Are you okay?"  
I nodded, fighting to get control of my breathing, which was 
coming in terrified gasps. Still, I managed to sit up.  
He seemed  to take my affirmation at face value and stepped to the 
edge of the woods to wipe his dagger in the grass before sliding it 
back in a hidden sheath in his right sleeve.  
My heart pounded, and I was still hyperventilating. As I tried to 
calm down, I realize d how ridiculous I must seem to him. I was still 
prone on the ground freaking out, while he casually cleaned his 
weapon after killing in a single motion. If I joined the Dragoneers, 
would it affect me like that? Would I kill that easily? Would it become 
my first instinct?  
Lewon held out his hand and I took it. He pulled me up and set 
me back on me feet, his arms briefly circling around my waist. Then, 
he turned his attention to the dead Goblin.  
The danger had passed, and I was on my feet, but my heart beat 
faster and faster. Why couldn’t I catch my breath? I didn’t normally 
react to danger this way. What was wrong with me? Was I having an 
attack of the heart, like the one that killed my grandmother before I 
was born?  
Lewon looked up from where he crouched, r ifling through the 
dead Goblin’s belongings.  
I staggered and fell to my knees. I could hear Farean screaming in 
my head, but that was ridiculous. We hadn’t even made it to the inn 
yet, and the farm was two miles beyond that.  
67  Ash Rober ts 
 Lewon rushed to my side, grabbi ng my shoulders and pulling me 
up. "You need to calm down."  
"I—I can’t." The world spun around me. How could I be moving 
if he was holding me upright?  
"No, you need to calm down. Tell Farean you are okay. She is 
freaking out and overloading your system wit h adrenaline. If both of 
you don’t pull it together, your heart will stop."  
Nothing like telling me that I was about to die to get me settled. "I 
can’t," I panted. "She’s not here."  
"Do it," he shouted, shaking me roughly.  
The pounding continued. This was it; my heart was going to 
explode in my chest.  
If I’d been in a better state of mind, I would have seen it coming. 
Maybe I could have even blocked it. But Lewon slapped me hard 
enough to see stars. "Tell her" he screamed.  
"Farean," I said aloud and in my m ind too. "I’m okay. We’re 
okay."  
Immediately, my heart slowed. The edge of my panic blunted, and 
my breathing slowed. I became aware of the fact that I was sitting on 
the ground in my dress, with Lewon’s arms wrapped around me and 
a dead Goblin laid out ne xt to me. For some reason, that fact didn’t 
seem to bother me as much as it had a minute ago. I didn’t want to 
pull away from Lewon’s embrace. It felt so good. But I wanted him 
to know I was okay. "I’m sorry," I said. "I don’t know what 
happened. I’ve neve r been attacked before, but I didn’t think I would 
freak out like that."  
"It wasn’t you." He looked down into my face, his mouth very 
close to mine. "It was your bond with Farean. She felt the attack and 
got scared. Don’t be surprised if she shows up any m inute. Actually, 
we should both have our dragons with us." His eyes looked off in the 
distance for a moment, his lips moving slightly as he had a 
conversation I couldn’t hear. Did I move my lips like that when I 
mind -spoke with Farean?  
Royal Dragoneer   68 
 "How can you talk to  your dragon from so far?" I asked, pulling 
out of his arms. "And Farean isn’t coming; she doesn’t know where 
we are."  
I’m coming,  Kalia.  
Well, that made me feel silly. And it quickly morphed into anger. 
"Will you tell me what’s going on?" I pushed against  Lewon’s chest.  
We untangled from each other and both stood up.  
"You really don’t know anything about dragons, do you?" He 
asked.  
"That’s not fair," I said. "Everything I know, I’ve had to teach 
myself. Or Farean has taught me." I glared at him, but he was  right. 
This time, what I didn’t know had almost killed me. Next time, it 
might harm or kill Farean. That thought was unbearable. It would be 
like rending myself in two if she died. Where was she? What if she 
got netted by Goblins on the way to me? There c ould be more in the 
woods.  
Then, I heard the "fwap" of beating dragon wings and saw Farean 
clear the tree line. She landed by the dead Goblin and sliced into the 
body with her talons, stabbing with a fury I’d not seen in her before. 
I reached out to her. " It’s dead. It can’t hurt us anymore. " She took one 
more jab at the skull, with enough force to crack it open, before 
turning her attention to me.  
"Are you okay?  What  happened?  I felt you and got scared.  I’ll kill anyone  
that hurts you. Are you okay? " 
The questions kept coming until I placed my arms around her 
neck, sending her every reassuring thought I could muster. "I’m fine. 
It was over before it began, thanks to Lewon."  
Farean swiveled her head, noticing the man next to me for the 
first time. " He smells like dragon.  Where  is his dragon? " 
I started to explain where Calen was when the beat of wings 
announced his arrival.  
Lewon’s green landed a few feet from us, and the two dragons 
squared off, appraising each other. I felt my panic returning. A green 
69  Ash Rober ts 
 just like this had killed my grandfather in front of my eyes. And now 
it looked like he wanted to kill Farean.  
Farean hissed, feeding off my fear. She extended her neck and 
arched her wings, trying to make herself appear as large as possible. 
The older dragon still had the size advantage and batted her with the 
bony edge of his wing.  
I felt the hit as if it were to my own face. It didn’t particularly hurt, 
more like a scolding than an attack. Farean snorted. " Don’t  patronize  
me. If you are going to attack,  do so properly ". 
"No, wait!" I ran to intercept them, throwing myself between the 
two creatures. Farean’s nose pushed against my back. I reached 
behind me to shove her away. Of course, my measly human efforts 
had no effect on a beast so much larger than myself . "What are you 
doing? He’s twice your size and trained. You wouldn’t stand a 
chance."  
"I could take him". She huffed.  
Calen’s eyes bored into me.  
Farean wrapped a claw around me and drew me back from the 
green dragon. " He’s trying to decide  whether  you’re  worth the trouble  to kill so 
he can get to me." 
Calen suddenly tilted his head towards Lewon and dropped his 
shoulders. He glowered at us, but didn’t advance otherwise.  
"No one is attacking anyone," Lewon said, taking a step towards 
us. He looked at his d ragon. "They are our allies."  
Lewon turned towards Farean and me, his hands out in a gesture 
of peace. "We all have a lot of residual tension right now from the 
attack. It’s messing with our emotions. Let’s all calm down. Farean, I 
know you can’t back down  without losing face. Neither can Calen. 
So, on the count of three, everyone will back down together. Nobody 
loses." He swiveled his head between my dragon and his. He raised 
his hands up above his shoulders. "Okay? One. Two. Three. Now." 
He dropped his ha nds and the two beasts returned to their normal 
postures.  
Royal Dragoneer   70 
 "How did you do that? Farean wouldn’t listen to me." " I couldn’t  
control  her. I had always  been able to control  her before,  but not this time". She 
wasn’t a baby anymore. She was developing a mind of her own.  
He shrugged. "Dragons are pack animals, always sorting each 
other for dominance. When you put a bunch of them together, you 
have to learn how to defuse situations before they turn into attacks. 
But don’t worry. You’ll learn it quick enough."  
My eyes settled on the body in the path. He followed my gaze. 
"These woods aren’t safe anymore. You’ll need something to defend 
yourself with."  
Lewon crouched over the Goblin and searched through its 
clothing. He found a crooked dagger in a thigh sheath and pulled 
them both off. "It’s Goblin steel, worthless in most situations, but it’s 
better than nothing. At the training grounds, we can get you outfitted 
with quality gear."  
I examined the blade and sheath. I looked at my waist, trying to 
figure out a way to  attach it. I certainly wasn’t going to reach inside 
my skirt for a weapon.  
Lewon realized my dilemma and removed the belt from the 
Goblin’s body. I shrank back from the grimy leather. He stared at 
me, but I wouldn’t touch it.  
"Fine," he said and removed h is own belt. He strung the sheath 
through the braided cords and handed it to me, then wrapped the 
Goblin belt around his own waist. I tied the belt over my skirts as he 
nodded. "Keep that handy. Even when you get home. You never 
know when another greyskin will show up.  
I pursed my lips at the slur. I knew what it meant, but nobody had 
ever been crude enough to use in in front of me.  
If Lewon saw my discomfort at his words, he didn’t show it. 
Instead, he turned to his dragon. "Get rid of the body." The green  
picked up what was left of the Goblin after Farean’s evisceration and 
went airborne. With a flick of his wrist, the dragon tossed it into the 
woods for scavengers to take care of and landed, this time well clear 
of Farean.  
71  Ash Rober ts 
 Lewon looked at the sun. "Since the dragons are here, we might as 
well fly. It will be safer."  
I looked at Farean’s back. "I don’t have my harness with me."  
He chewed on his lower lip. "Okay, we’ll walk. But I’m not leaving 
your side until you are safely home. I was charged to bring you back 
to Tulta and that’s what I intend to do. Besides, I can’t afford to lose 
someone as important as you."  
I looked down, unable to meet his eye. He meant because I was a 
princess, of course. That had to be. He couldn’t mean that I was 
important to him pe rsonally, could he?  
After a long dusty, mostly silent walk, with our dragons flying 
overhead to scan the woods around us, we were finally at Theron’s. 
Lewon walked in with me and met Theron, them shaking hands like 
old friends. Lewon explained about the at tack on the road, and 
Theron offered him and Calen a place in one of the barns for the 
night. After we’d all had some food and drink, Lewon headed for the 
door.  
I followed him out, to make sure Farean was settled, but then I 
could hear her snoring from her  stable. I was surprised when Lewon 
paused on the porch and took my hands in his. "You’ve certainly 
made my day interesting. I’m going to enjoy flying with you 
tomorrow." He smiled, looking down at me.  
I leaned forward, willing him to close the gap between  us. He saw 
the motion and pulled back. "Get some sleep. We’ll leave just after 
dawn." He drew my hand to his mouth and kissed it, confusing me 
even more, before loping into the dark towards the barn.  
I stood for a few moments, under the moonlight, only to  see 
Farean lumbering towards me.  
"I got a quick nap. "She said, coming up and rubbing my face with 
her muzzle" . Now,  I will stand watch". 
"Don’t be silly. You need more sleep. You have the hard part 
tomorrow."  
"Fine". She coiled her body in front of the d oor, resting her head 
on her front legs. " I will sleep here then. Nothing  will get past me". 
Royal Dragoneer   72 
 I smiled and patted her head. "Goodnight." I closed the door 
behind me and leaned against it, trying to keep my thoughts still until 
I heard her snoring again.  
There it was —halfway between a growl and a purr —the most 
endearing sound I’d ever heard.  
I pressed my back against the hard door, fighting tears. This day 
had reminded me of the other side of having a dragon —the 
dangerous and wild side that had killed my gran dfather. That had 
been easy to forget while Farean was smaller and cuter, and we lived 
on a pig farm.  
I had often wondered why my grandfather had run out to 
confront a huge beast wielding only a sword. I had never asked my 
mother or father. I knew, even as  a small child, it was not a question 
I was allowed to voice. But, in my own mind, I’d often thought it had 
been foolish of him. Everyone knew a man couldn’t defeat a dragon. 
Only a dragon could match a dragon.  
And today, my little dragon had faced off aga inst a full -grown 
green, and all that terror had come rushing back. That was when I 
realized I was being as foolish as my grandpa. I had vastly 
overestimated my ability to handle a dragon.  
Lewon’s words came rushing back to me —You really don’t know 
anythin g about dragons,  do you?"  " 
He was right. I hadn’t known my fear would scare Farean so 
much, or that her response could actually kill me. I hadn’t known I 
could call her from far away, or that she could hone in on my 
location. And I had absolutely no idea how dragons related to other 
dragons, or how Dragoneers related to one another. Which had all 
lead me to make a decision on our silent march home, though I had 
fought not to think of it until now. My heart ached, but I also knew it 
was the right thing to d o for Farean. Because I loved her.  
I ran my hand over the rough grain of the door separating us and 
swallowed my sobs.  
I wouldn’t be getting much in the way of sleep tonight.  
 
 
 
They’re  here. Kalia,  wake up. They’re  here"." 
I opened my eyes, squinting into the rising sun streaming through 
my window. A cool breeze carried the scent of the caked mud and 
excrement from the stable. I wasn’t going to miss that part of my 
morning wakeup routine. Rubbing my eyes, I searched  for the clothes 
I’d dropped on the floor the night before. My hair was a mess, but it 
would get much worse than that flying, so instead of fixing it, I 
stumbled out to the kitchen. Lewon sat at the table chatting with 
Theron. I ignored them and went for t he pot of brewed stimleaf. I 
chugged the beverage and let out the most unladylike belch. For 
dignity’s sake, they pretended not to hear me.  
Lewon stood. "Are you ready to go?"  
"Almost."  I hugged Theron. "Thank you for everything. I couldn’t 
have made it through this month without you."  
He wrapped his arms around me. "You would have been fine. 
You’re more resilient than you think."  
I sniffed, fighting to keep the tears from falling. "Once  I’m on 
better terms with my father, I’ll —" 
"I already have everything I could want from your father. Just 
don’t be a stranger. Visit me when you’re at the capital."  
I nodded, backing away from him. "I will."  
Outside, Farean paced in front of the house, tu rning at every 
sound coming from the woods. " Can we go now? Goblins  could attack  any 
moment ". 
I laughed.  
Royal Dragoneer   74 
 Lewon leaned in and whispered, "Don’t tell her we’ll be traveling 
closer to the Goblin encampments." The laugh died on my lips. I 
didn’t like the idea of heading towards danger, but I at least I’d be 
surrounded by dozens of dragons and trained Dragoneers.  
I lashed my bag to Farean’s forepaw and assembled my makeshift 
harness. Lewon arched an eyebrow at it but said nothing. Calen 
snorted and shook his hea d. I ignored them. If they wanted me to 
have a proper harness, they should have brought one. Tightening the 
last knot securing me to Farean’s back, I leaned in close. " Let’s show 
them what we can do". 
Without warning, she reared and leapt into the sky, bea ting her 
wings as we flew higher and higher. Looking back, I saw Lewon 
finish fastening his harness and take off after us. Aided by Calen’s 
larger size, they caught up quickly. Farean flapped harder, taking us 
closer to the clouds. Calen banked and then ro se above us. He 
coasted overhead, pushing us lower. "Save your energy," Lewon 
shouted. "We have a lot of flying to do today."  
I stuck out my tongue, but we descended to a more comfortable 
altitude. We flew in silence with Lewon and his dragon a few feet to  
our left. Remembering the bug incident from the week before, I 
fished out my scarf from a pocket on my gingham dress and wrapped 
it around my face. The wind still stung my eyes and made them 
water. I was about to add goggles to my mental list of things I 
needed, and then remembered I wouldn’t be needing them.  
"What  are Googles? " Farean asked. " Do I need them? " 
"Not Googles.  Goggles.  "I corrected her, thankful for the laugh to 
cover my sudden sadness."  And no, you don’t need them. That’s  what your 
second  eyelids are for." 
We fell behind the other dragon. At first, it was barely noticeable, 
but as the day progressed, Lewon got further and further ahead of us, 
until I could barely see the spade -shaped flutter of Calen’s tail.  
Lewon noticed this as well, and th ey began to descend, waving us 
down as they went.  
75  Ash Rober ts 
 Farean landed next to them in a clearing by a stream. After 
extracting myself from the harness, she lumbered over and started 
lapping up water.  
"We will rest for an hour and then start again." Lewon pulled a 
drinking flask out of his coat and filled it upstream from the dragons. 
"We made good time. We should only need to stop three or four 
more times before we make it to the training grounds." He pulled 
some strips of jerky out of another pocket and offered me one.  
Taking it, I glanced at our companions as the green found a spot 
free of shadows and spread out in it, soaking up the sun like a giant 
cat. "What about them?" I held up my jerky.  
Lewon shook his head. "If they eat, they’ll get tired and not fly as 
well. Under extreme conditions, a dragon can go three days without 
any food and still fly." He looked in my eyes, and then away, a little 
smile on his face.  
I nodded, unsure what to say. I felt like I was being flirted with, 
but it was awkward. Lewon didn’ t seem awed by my status, but then I 
had no idea what my status was anymore. How did Dragoneers flirt? 
I’d never really been courted or wooed. I’d been matched with Etlin 
when I was still a toddler. Both of us always assumed we’d be 
together, and it had be en comfortable and settled. And boring. How 
many girlfriends had Lewon had? Maybe he had one now. The 
thought was disturbing. How could I find out? I couldn’t just ask.  
Farean found her own sunny spot and rolled onto her side, 
exposing her belly to the ray s. I climbed up to her forepaw and rested 
against her. Together we dozed in the light as if we hadn’t a care in 
the world. Too soon, Lewon motioned for us to get ready. Up in the 
sky, we continued east, the wind reducing conversation to only the 
most neces sary orders.  
"What  do you think of Lewon? " I asked Farean.  
"I don’t trust him or his big green dragon. " "The man smells  off." Her tail 
flicked against the wind. Calen turned his head towards us briefly, but 
then returned his attention to flying. Had he hea rd that?  
Royal Dragoneer   76 
 "Really? " I asked her. " I thought  he smelled  good." "Besides,  he’s been nicer 
to me than anyone  outside  of Theron’s  family  since you hatched. " 
She swooped to catch a swallow too slow to avoid us. We flew 
with the poor creature in her talons for a few seconds before she 
released it. " I’m just practicing ". I felt her annoyance through our bond. 
"And if you don’t want my opinion,  don’t ask for it". 
"That was a good catch", I admitted. But I’d hurt her feelings and 
now she wanted to pretend I wasn’t ti ed to her back hundreds of feet 
in the air.  
She still wasn’t speaking to me the next time we landed. I 
unhooked myself from the harness and we headed in opposite 
directions.  
"What’s wrong?" Lewon fell in lockstep with me as we headed 
away from the river we  were still following.  
"Just a difference of opinion." I wasn’t about to tell him that we 
had argued about him. "But now she’s angry and not speaking to 
me." 
He laughed. "There isn’t a creature in the world as stubborn as a 
dragon. Give her time, she’ll co me around. But while we’re on the 
ground and she won’t be distracting you, I could teach you some 
woodcraft. That is unless you already know it."  
"No, it never came up while my mother was making sure I knew 
how to walk around with a board on my head." I mi med holding a 
flat object above me while keeping my head perfectly still, pacing a 
few steps. He laughed, and I pretended to drop my board and fell to 
the leafy ground after it. I grinned from below him and he plopped 
down beside me. "Apparently, it’s a vi tal skill in the court."  
I tried to pay attention as he instructed me in the best way to start 
a fire, but mostly I daydreamed about whether I could convince my 
parents to enter into talks with his. Or, well, whoever his guardian 
was. Hopefully, it was som ebody at least moderately important that 
could offer something to the King in return for my hand. It was silly 
girl stuff. I knew that. But I was a still a girl.  
77  Ash Rober ts 
 I decided that the Authand must be his guardian. That would be 
perfect. As leader of the Drago neers, Authand could just about name 
his terms. I’d seen him threaten to quit the service of the Elves if 
Father didn’t supply more food for the dragons. I had to be worth 
more than some food. Authand would have my father in a corner 
and my marriage to Lew on would be secured.  
I was so caught up in my ruminations that I didn’t hear him call 
my name. He clapped his hands next to my ear, breaking me free of 
my reverie. "Have you been paying attention at all?" He stood and 
held out a hand.  
"Huh?" I shook my hea d to clear the cobwebs. "Of course. I just 
got a little distracted towards the end." I took the hand, expecting 
him to pull me up, but he just stood there with his arm extended. 
Well, Father would at least insist that Lewon take lessons with my 
grace tutor . I pulled myself up, using his otherwise useless arm as 
support.  
He turned his back on me, heading to the waiting dragons. "Get in 
your harness. We should have left a while ago."  
I raced to catch up on him, taking care to avoid the exposed tree 
roots that  threatened to trip me on the ill -defined path. The gurgling 
water of the nearby stream reminded me that I hadn’t been able to 
relieve myself for hours. "How long till we get there?"  
"Still half a day’s flight. Why?"  
I couldn’t bring myself to say it. I su bconsciously looked down at 
my lap. He caught the motion and smirked. "You’ll have to go in the 
woods."  
"What? No, I can’t." My hands dropped to cover myself, although 
I was no more exposed than I had been a minute ago.  
"Suit yourself," he shrugged, leavin g me wondering why he was 
suddenly so rude. If that wasn’t bad enough, he and Calen took off, 
leaving me to finish tying myself in so Farean and I had to try to 
catch up. At our next landing, I was so annoyed, I stayed tied to 
Farean’s back the entire hour  on the ground.  
Royal Dragoneer   78 
 We continued east, as the sun sank towards the horizon, turning 
the sky a mixture of reds and oranges. Behind us, the sky dipped into 
violet and the dragon moon glowed silver as it began its nightly chase 
of the ball of fire. The sun disapp eared below the horizon and dots 
of fire became visible on the ground below, signaling inhabitants who 
eschewed the safety of greater numbers in towns and villages. Ahead 
of us, a ring of fires marked our destination, as the watch lit the night 
against the  Goblins that hunted here.  
We landed in a field where Colonel Authand was waiting. He held 
out his good hand to steady me as I climbed off Farean. "Welcome, 
Princess Kalia." He bowed, still clutching my hand.  
"No time. Bathroom." I ran off in a random dire ction, hoping one 
would be clearly labelled. Near the wall to my left, a lonely wooden 
stall bore the glyph for privacy. I gulped, as I headed towards it. A pit 
toilet was little better than going in the woods, but I was out of time 
and options.  
When came back out, the Colonel and Lewon were nowhere to be 
seen and neither were the dragons. " Farean?  "I called, beginning to 
panic.  
"Finally,  not pork"! She squealed in my head. Well, at least she was 
being taken care of. I wasn’t sure where I was supposed to go, but a 
red-haired girl approached me, holding out a hand. I was getting used 
to the manners of commoners and shook it. "I’m Kalia," I added.  
"I know," she said. "I’m Esgeril. Colonel Authand asked me to 
show you to the girls’ dorm. You’re to report to h im in the morning."  
She started walking and I followed, trying to examine the buildings 
in the dim light. The complex was huge, putting the castle to shame, 
but most of the space was empty, segregated into large grassy lots like 
the one we were crossing. L ow stone buildings dotted the landscape 
and the lake I’d spied from the air seemed to make up the Western 
border.  
We approached a complex made up of stables for the dragons. 
The scent of straw and sweat permeated the building, which 
alternated between covered and open -air pavilions. To either side sat 
79  Ash Rober ts 
 two story buildings with rows of empty windows. Esgeril led me to 
the closest one. "All of the female Dragoneers stay here," she 
explained. "The guys are on the other side. And there’s a watch tower 
over the stables," she pointed to a spindle in the center of the 
compound, "to make sure we don’t mix. Violators get latrine  duty."  
I made a face. "At least that was one thing I won’t have to worry 
about. Princesses don’t sneak in the middle of the night."  
She chuckled as she led me up to an empty room. "This one is 
yours. I’m down the hall on the right." She pointed to a door by the 
stairs. She promised to lead me to the Colonel’s office in the morning 
and, with that, I was alone for the first time since I’d stormed out of 
the hatching grounds a lifetime ago. I found my belongings sitting on 
a small table by a cot. It was bare and uncomfortable compared to 
my quarters in the castle, but a month of sleeping in Lunara’s bed 
made it more than tolerable.  

 
 
 
"This place is so fun. There  are so many dragons  here". Farean’s voice 
woke me up, insanely early, as usual. My window showed a view of 
inky purple over the lake, only the brightest morning stars still visible.  
"I knew you would  like it. But let me sleep. I don’t need to be up until dawn". 
I rolled over and pulled my head under the straw  stuffed pillow. I 
could feel her excitement and even caught the odd scent as she 
introduced herself to the rousing dragons. I pushed the sensations 
away and focused on returning to sleep, but a knock ended that futile 
hope. Still dressed in yesterday’s cl othes, I opened the door to find 
Esgeril waiting for me, her long braided hair still damp. With 
squinted eyes, I told her, "I thought you said morning. This is still 
night."  
She laughed. "We count dawn by the tower. The sun hit it half an 
hour ago."  
"Fine,  I’ll get ready." I grunted and shut the door in her face. I 
spied a bowl of water that had been set out for me the night before 
and did my best to wash the travel grime from my face and hands. I 
had no way of cleaning my hair, so I tied it up into a bun b efore 
changing into fresh clothes. Opening the door, I found Esgeril 
waiting in the same spot I’d left her. Girls in various stages of getting 
dressed chatted in the halls but when I stepped out, they all fell silent. 
I felt every pair of eyes on me as we left. I hoped they didn’t think 
they were intimidating me. Being stared at had pretty much been my 
life-long job description.  
Overhead, dragons flew in formations. "Why are they different?"  
"Huh?" Esgeril stopped.  
Royal Dragoneer   82 
 I pointed up. "The formations. Each color group is flying 
differently from the rest. Wouldn’t it look better if they all flew the 
same way?"  
She shook her head. "Formations are designed to take advantage 
of each dragon’s strength. Oranges are the biggest and strongest. And 
the most stubborn, just like their riders. Blues like your Farean are 
the fastest. They can be quick to temper as well." I recalled how 
willing Farean had been to eat half the nobility of Darneta at the 
hatching and nodded.  
Esgeril continued. "Greens are the most agile, sometimes  of 
morals as well as body. They are the best at getting in and out of a 
tight spot without getting caught." She paused a second and her chest 
swelled. "But Reds are the most steadfast creatures in all the land. 
Only they can fly steady enough for an arche r." 
"You have a Red dragon, I’m guessing?"  
"Yeah. Baran. He’s the best dragon ever. Every Dragoneer is 
going to say that, but in my case, it’s true. He understands me better 
than anyone."  
The Colonel’s office was small compared to the dragon sized 
building s of the rest of the camp. However, it did have an entire wall 
missing, covered over with a huge sheet of canvas. Esgeril saw me 
staring at it as we approached. "It rolls up to allow Korth to join in 
meetings." I tried to imagine a dragon sitting in on one  of my father’s 
conferences, stuffed into one of the hard wooden chairs and sipping 
tea from Mother’s delicate, human -made china.  
I giggled and Esgeril shot me a puzzled look. I shook my head and 
the door to the office opened at our arrival. An aide looked  at us and 
said, "Ah, Princess Kalia. Please, come in. The Colonel is expecting 
you." He turned his attention to Esgeril. "You can go to breakfast 
now. Somebody else will retrieve her when they are done."  
Esgeril gave the aide a nod and left. I followed hi m inside. He 
pointed to a bench in the antechamber and knocked on the door to 
the Colonel’s office. I sat as he went inside and spoke to the Elf in 
83  Ash Rober ts 
 charge. A moment later, he returned and waved me in. I stepped 
inside the office, and he shut the door behin d me.  
"You’re late." The Colonel didn’t wait for me to sit.  
I settled into the small wooden stool on the opposite side of his 
desk. "I’m sorry, sir. I didn’t know you used the tower to tell time 
here." I looked down, folding my hands in my lap as I balance d on 
the tripod structure.  
"No, I mean you’re two days late." He shook his head. "The other 
new Dragoneers arrived from the hatchery two days ago. That makes 
you two days behind learning the basics. You’ll have to make it up on 
your own time. Meanwhile, yo u will have chores like anybody else. 
Don’t expect any special treatment here. The King’s daughter isn’t 
any different from a shopkeeper’s son as far as Dragoneers are 
concerned."  
"With all due respect, sir." I straightened and looked him in the 
eye. "I do n’t plan to be here long. I came to find a new rider for 
Farean. Once that is settled, I’ll head back to the capital. I don’t 
know if I’ll be welcome at the castle, but I’ve made some friends 
there and can find work."  
"What are you talking about?" He title d his head, giving me a look 
as if I’d said something preposterous; like Goblins were my friends. 
Well, I had a dragon in my head and we made peace with my 
grandfather’s killers. Maybe that idea wasn’t too far out either.  
"I’m talking about the fact that I  know nothing about dragons, 
and Farean deserves better than that. She needs a rider that can turn 
her into the greatest blue the Dragoneers have ever seen. Surely, 
there was someone at the hatching that wasn’t chosen but who has 
been trained up for this. Of course, I’d like to meet them first, to see 
if they’re a good fit. Farean can’t just go to anyone."  
His face contorted into a frown and then a grimace as I finished 
my speech. Then for moment, we just sat, staring at each other.  
"What you are asking is impossible," he said.  
"Impossible? You mean there is nobody else available without a 
dragon? I might know someone already," I said, thinking of my maid.  
Royal Dragoneer   84 
 "I mean that the bond between you and your dragon is 
unbreakable. You cannot leave her because you’re s cared, or you 
want a more manageable pet. Frankly, even suggesting such a thing is 
the most sickening thing I’ve ever heard, and I was reading a report 
on Goblin atrocities before you arrived." He reached for a scroll on 
his desk and flung it at me.  
I duck ed, but the wooden spindle struck my arm. "Oww." I 
rubbed the red mark. I stood up, knocking over the stool. I bent to 
pick it up but stopped, kicking it away from me instead. "Why are 
you so angry with me?" I demanded, glaring at him.  
"Angry?" He laughed.  "This isn’t angry? This barely rates as 
annoyed on my scale. This has nothing to do with you, Princess." He 
spat the word, making it sound more like a slur than a title worthy of 
respect. "This is about your dragon. You are a pathetic excuse for an 
Elf an d Farean is stuck with you. Those are the facts. Every 
Dragoneer who has ever flown knows they aren’t worthy of their 
mount. It humbles the most confident man and makes him feel the 
fool to be owned by a beast so grand. I dare say it even makes a 
Princess doubt her useless, pompous upbringing. But that doesn’t 
mean you can quit. Quite the opposite."  
"I’m not trying to be falsely humble here, I assure you," I argued. 
"Look at me. Do you really think I have any business caring for one 
of our most precious mil itary assets? I don’t know what I’m doing."  
"No, you don’t. And that’s mostly your fault. You ran off like a 
spoiled little girl instead of staying at the hatching grounds where 
others were available to mentor you." He struck the desk with his 
hook. That s ection of the wood was filled with pock marks from 
similar attacks. He used the wedged in claw to pull himself up, 
returning the advantage of height to him. "I’m not saying you aren’t a 
terrible choice for a Dragoneer. You are. But if you leave that dragon , 
you will break her heart. And I don’t mean in a figurative, lovesick 
teenager way. The dragon bond is the strongest magic left in the 
world. If Farean believes, for one second, that you’ve truly rejected 
her, her giant reptilian heart will stop beating."  
85  Ash Rober ts 
 "No—I would never want that. Isn’t there another way?" I 
croaked, feeling my own heart in my throat.  
"There is not. And, so help me, if you do anything to mistreat that 
dragon, you’ll be spending a lifetime in the Dragon Caves. And don’t 
think your father  could overrule Dragoneer justice. The caves are 
prison to criminal Dragoneers and dragons from all seven kingdoms. 
Now get out of here before I decide to send you there just for being 
an idiot."  
I stood, openmouthed, trying to process what he’d told me. 
Authand picked up the ink blotter and threw it at my feet. I jumped, 
but the blue ink still splattered on the pigskin boots that Theron had 
given me. He looked for something else to throw, and I got the 
picture, racing for the door. I didn’t acknowledge the  aide, even as he 
held the outer door for me so I could escape his boss.  
Lewon sat on a rock wall a few feet from the office, whittling a 
stick with the dagger he’d used to kill the Goblin a few days ago. He 
saw me and stood. I cut away from him, wanting n othing more than 
to go back to my quarters and cry in privacy.  
He sidestepped and cut me off, so I ran straight into his body. 
Again. We were beginning to make a habit of that. Lewon wrapped 
his arms around me, gripping me tightly so that I couldn’t escape . 
"Leave me alone." I choked back a sob.  
"Hey, don’t worry about him. He’s like that with everybody."  
"I doubt that," I said, struggling against Lewon’s hold. My eyes 
were already wet and full of unshed tears, but I couldn’t hold them 
back much longer.  
"No, really. Did you see all the marks on his desk? He doesn’t 
need to stand up that way. He does it for affect to scare the newbies.  
I sniffed. "Are you sure?"  
"Yeah." He grinned at me, his dimples showing, and my heart 
lifted a little. Maybe this wouldn’t b e so bad —getting trained by 
Lewon. Deciding to give up Farean had been the hardest decision I 
had ever made. Harder than leaving home or breaking up with Etlin. 
And now the Colonel was saying I couldn’t —that it was impossible. 
Royal Dragoneer   86 
 Wasn’t that a good thing? I h ad built myself up for the inevitable 
heartbreak of it for so long; I didn’t even know how to feel anymore. 
Fear? Hope? Relief?  
Lewon felt me relax and loosened his arms some, adding, "But 
he’s still going to give you extra duty for missing an entire month  at 
the hatching grounds and two days of training. Make no mistake. 
When the Colonel says something, he means it. You’re going to be so 
sore."  
"Great! " How much extra work would make up for saying "the 
most sickening" thing the Colonel had ever heard?  
"Hey , don’t worry," Lewon said. "When you’re not in classes or 
doing extra chores, I could help train you to get you caught up."  
"Yeah, okay." I nodded. "Let’s do it."  
"You mean right now?" he laughed, surprised at my sudden 
determination. "How about this?  We have free time after dinner. 
There’s a beach on the north shore of the lake. Meet me there an 
hour after we eat, and I’ll get you up to speed."  
I smiled. Alone on a beach as the sun was setting? That was the 
best news I’d heard all month. "But dinner i s so far away," I moaned. 
"I haven’t even eaten breakfast yet."  
"Well, let’s take care of that," he said, guiding me to the mess hall. 
When we arrived, he waved me inside. "I’ve already eaten and need 
to get back to my classes. See you after lunch." I star ted inside. "Oh, 
and Kalia?"  
I stopped. "Yes?"  
"Get yourself a proper set of clothes. You won’t be able to fight in 
a dress. And you looked pretty ridiculous flying in it yesterday. Let’s 
just say there was a reason I wouldn’t let you fly ahead of me." He 
grinned and left. I stood at the door, red from the tips of my ears 
down to my toes. I entered the mess, taking a moment for my eyes to 
adjust to the dim light. Outside, three bells tolled, their tone rising 
then falling. The Dragoneers around the room sto pped talking at 
once, creating an odd quiet punctuated only by the chime.  
87  Ash Rober ts 
 Then, they rose and made for the exits. Several pushed past me, as 
if I wasn’t there. After being knocked repeatedly, I gave up expecting 
common decency from them and pressed myself against the wall.  
Seconds later, the room was empty save for a servant who pushed 
a cart, piling the abandoned plates and bowls as she passed each 
table. I made my way towards a door marked "Enter" in hopes of 
finding my breakfast.  
"What are you still doin g here, girl?" The servant pushed the cart 
in front of me, blocking my progress. "Capture the flag is about to 
start."  
"I don’t care about a game. I’m hungry."  
"Breakfast is over. Now go." She turned her back to me and 
resumed her task. I sighed and left. If I couldn’t get a meal, I might as 
well find out about this game everyone was so eager for.  
Out on the parade field, dragons and their riders assembled 
according to their colors. I finally found Esgeril among a group of 
other Red riders. Her fiery hair a midst a sea of red dragon hides 
hadn’t exactly made her conspicuous.  
The dragons eyed me. I came a little too close to one, and it 
emitted a low growl. I shrank away from it. "What’s going on?"  
Esgeril saw me and pulled me away from the throng. "What are 
you doing here? You and Farean should be with the Blues. Find the 
other Blue riders and talk to Selkerdrim. He’ll explain the rules to 
you. Now go. The others think you’re here spying for your team." 
She gave me a small push and disappeared back into the cr owd.  
The Blues were easy to find. Each of the four Colors occupied a 
different quadrant of the field and kept well apart from each other. 
Farean was already there, pacing back and forth, bragging about her 
one short visit to the castle while the others ign ored her and went 
about their business.  
She saw me and perked up. " Kalia.  You’re  here! Are we going to play 
too?" 
"It looks that way. But I need to find Selkerdrim."  
Royal Dragoneer   88 
 "Someone looking for me?" The crowd parted, revealing a tall boy 
wearing a number three pi nned to his shirt. Tufts of dark brown hair 
stuck out from under a leather helmet. Selkerdrim flashed a smile as 
he approached. He looked near my age, and held himself in a manner 
that commanded respect. I felt a little self -conscious standing near 
him. He  had the bearing Father had tried to teach me, but I had been 
as bad at it as Mother’s lady -like grace.  
"Oh, you." His smile faded. He pointed to a group in mismatched 
gear looking a little lost. "Go over with the other first years. I’ll be 
there in a minu te. I don’t want to have to explain the rules more than 
once."Most of the other first year Dragoneers were my age, but there 
were a few older. They all quieted when I approached. "Hi." I waved.  
In return, they just stared. It was a tad rude, but I understo od that 
commoners had little chance to learn proper manners.  
Two riders broke into a fight, grappling each other to the ground. 
I stopped, unsure if I should break it up or if I even could. Before I 
could make up my mind, one of the boys pinned the other t o the 
ground. He stood above him for a second, then reached down and 
pulled him back to his feet.  
Selkerdrim approached our group with a golden banner tucked 
under his arm. "This is our flag." He unrolled it to reveal a vividly 
embroidered blue dragon span ning the length. "The object of 
Capture the Flag is to protect our flag and capture one belonging to 
the enemy. If another dragon catches you, they get ten points. Catch 
a flag and bring it back here for fifty points. The first team to a 
hundred wins. You lot will guard the flag. When the horn blows, 
follow me. Saddle up."  
The others climbed on top of their beasts and hooked into their 
harnesses. Mine was still in my room. Of course, Selkerdrim noticed 
me just standing there. "You don’t get a special invita tion. I expect 
my orders to be followed."  
"I didn’t bring my harness." I explained. "No one told me —" 
"You’re absolutely useless." From his dragon, Selkerdrim towered 
over me. "Look, the game is about to start. When it does, run to the 
89  Ash Rober ts 
 trees and hide. You can’t play without a harness." The horn blew. 
Selkerdrim’s dragon lifted off into the sky, soon followed by the 
other Blue dragons. The Reds, Greens, and Oranges rose in their 
respective sections of the field. Soon, Farean and I were the only 
ones left.  
I sighed. "Well, let’s go have a seat and wait for this to be over."  
We sat under the shade of an oak and watched the other dragons 
and riders flit across the sky. Authand and another instructor, " Aran’s  
rider", Farean provided somewhat helpfully, announced the game.  
The Orange dragons seemed to focus on defense. They made no 
attempt to hide their flag, but a wall of the giant beasts surrounded it. 
The younger ones, nearly double the size of an adult Blue, worked on 
points.  
A Green, undoubtedly thinking itsel f sneaky, dove from an 
impossibly high height towards the Orange flag. Its speed increased 
as it got closer to the ground. Wings tucked in, the approach was 
almost silent. If I had been facing the other direction, I would have 
never known it was coming. I held my breath. Would the green 
dragon be able to stop in time?  
I couldn’t hear the approaching dragon, but apparently other 
dragons could. Just as the Green was about to break through the 
circle, one of the Oranges flicked its tail at the speeding intrude r. The 
strike was quick and precise. Neither dragon nor rider even looked, 
but the blow found its mark. The Green was thrown off course, 
tumbling twice before righting itself mere feet from the ground.  
"Ten points for Orange." Authand’s voice boomed throug h a 
speaking horn.  
If the gambit had succeeded, Green would have won the game. 
For now, they maintained the lead, but the Blues weren’t far behind. 
"Ten points for Green," Authand reported on some unseen part of 
the field. That put them up to ninety. The m atch was pretty much a 
wrap at this point. One more play, and it would be theirs. At only 
sixty points, the Blues didn’t have much chance.  
Royal Dragoneer   90 
 Cheering erupted from Elves with dragon roars joining the chorus. 
"Kalia,  look", Farean practically shouted through o ur mental 
connection. " Selkerdrim  has the Red flag. We’re  going to win." 
But it wasn’t a forgone conclusion just yet. A dozen Reds, three 
Greens, and even a small Orange chased close behind. Perhaps 
Selkerdrim’s only chance lie in the fact that the other t eams were 
more interested in fighting each other for position than in actually 
catching up to him. The Blue and his rider came in over the lake, 
wind buffeting them and slowing their superior speed. The Greens 
rode the currents in loops and twirls, taking every advantage to close 
the gap. The Reds sliced through the wind as if it weren’t there. Even 
the Orange dragon barreled through, using mass and sheer force of 
will to beat the maelstrom.  
"Psst."  
Whoever wanted me could wait. I leaned forward at the very  edge 
of my stump to watch.  
"Psst."  
I turned and found Lewon ducked behind a tree. He waved for me 
to join him. I cast a glance back towards the action and moved his 
direction. "But I want to watch this," I complained.  
"You want to watch the game, or do yo u want to win it?" He 
pointed. Just beyond where he stood in a small clearing, the green 
flag hung from a tree branch. And no one was guarding it.  
"Why show me?" I asked confused. "Don’t you want to win?"  
Lewon shrugged. "Green wins this thing all the time . If you score 
the winning points, you’ll be a hero. It will go a long way towards the 
Dragoneers accepting you."  
I considered it. Authand already hated me, and no one else was 
likely to cut me any slack. And it was only a silly game. Besides, I 
hadn’t hea rd any rules against one team helping another. "Thank 
you," I whispered to Lewon, hurrying towards the flag before he 
changed his mind. When I got to it, I wrapped my fingers around the 
silk cloth and pulled. It spilled into my arms, and I raced back to 
Farean. "We don’t have a harness, so we’ll have to walk. But if we 
91  Ash Rober ts 
 hurry, we can beat Selkerdrim back to the field." I climbed on her 
back, thinking it would be faster. And if I did fall off it was only a 
few feet to the ground.  
Farean lumbered through the t rees out onto the edge of the field. 
As soon as we broke into the open, half the Green team was upon us 
like they’d been waiting there.  
"Run," I shouted.  
Farean moved as quickly as she could, but she was no land 
mammal. Ahead, Selkerdrim had broken free of  his pursuers. He was 
going to beat me there after all.  
I was so focused on those behind me; I didn’t notice the shadow 
above me. Green talons thrust down, grabbing the flag in my arms. I 
gripped the fabric tighter, but the Green rose into the air, pulling  me 
off Farean. I screamed and let go, bouncing off Farean’s back and 
rolling to the ground.  
"Ten points for Green," Authand announced. "Green wins the 
game!" The Green bearing the flag he’d stolen from me took a 
victory lap over the field. One by one, the  other Greens joined him.  
I slowly pushed myself up from the ground, just as Selkerdrim 
landed in the marked out square little more than twenty yards in front 
of me. He would have won the game for us if I hadn’t botched it. 
Even from the distance, I could see his scowl as he dismounted.  
"Why did you do that?" he yelled at me "I told you to stay under 
cover and keep out of trouble."  
"I found their flag. There was nobody there. I thought I could 
win." I didn’t want to reveal Lewon’s role in my play and get him in 
trouble with his teammates.  
"If there’s nobody protecting a flag, it’s a trap," Selkerdrim spat. 
"They were waiting for you to take it."  
I hung my head. "I’m sorry."  
"Get out of here before the other Blues descend," he barked. 
"This would have been our first win against Green in two years, and 
you ruined it." He stormed off, leaving me standing there like an 
Royal Dragoneer   92 
 idiot. Which maybe I was. Had Lewon set me up? I didn’t want to 
believe that, but it sure looked like he had.  
"I told you", Farean huffed.  
"He f ooled you, too," I said before storming off.  
 
 
 
I took the long way back to the barracks and most of the other 
Dragoneers beat me there. A group of second year girls chatted in 
the courtyard overlooking the drago n stables. As I approached, their 
conversation stopped.  
"Thanks for your play," a girl with a tattoo of a green dragon on 
her forearm said. "The Greens would have needed an entire minute 
to win without you." The others laughed at her taunt. First the 
possi ble betrayal by Lewon, and now this? My day just kept getting 
better and better. Still, it would only make things worse if I started a 
fight.  
I smiled, calling forth every ounce of grace tutoring my mother 
had forced on me. "Maybe next time, I can score po ints for my own 
team."  
They just stared at me. Obviously, I wasn’t going to impress them 
with my grace. But there were other ways to win people.  
"Anyone want to trade clothes?" I asked, pointing down at my 
now-dusty dress. "It seems I brought the wrong tru nk and don’t have 
any riding attire. So, I propose a swap. My dress for any of the outfits 
you have on right now. I assure you, my dresses are custom made 
with the most expensive fabrics and quite valuable."  
"Why would we want a bunch of frilly stuff like that?" One of 
them asked. "We ain’t got no use for it here." The other girls tittered.  
"Don’t you ever get dressed up?" I asked. "Perhaps there’s a 
Dragoneer dance, or some rider you’d liked to impress." This 
conversation wasn’t going at all how I had hope d it would.  
"You don’t impress a rider with a dress," another girl scoffed.  
Royal Dragoneer   94 
 "And there ain’t no dance ‘cept the one in the sky," another girl 
said, and they all laughed like she’d told a lewd joke. " Oh, wait a 
minute.  Dragons  mate in the sky." 
One of the g irls was a Dark Elf. I’d heard they had limited 
opportunities because of the prejudice against them, though there 
was also an old wives tale that if you touched one it was good luck. I 
turned to her. "How about you?" I squinted at the name sewn onto a 
patch over her right breast. "Lorra? If you don’t want the dress to 
wear, you could get a pretty penny for it at the market, especially if 
you said it was from the banished Princess herself. I’m sure you 
could use the money."  
She came towards me. Like the othe r riders, she was strongly built 
and broad, her muscles rippling under her midnight skin. Two of her 
friends approached too, flanking her. The one in Green, Florian, 
towered over the others, taller than most men, with the faintest hit of 
green to her compl etion. She had to be part orc. I’d heard such 
things happened in the provinces, but it was shocking to see.  
Lorra inched closer. "What? Just because of the color of my skin, 
you think I’m poor? Not all stereotypes are true, Princess." She made 
my title sou nd like a slur. "But I guess one is. The royal family is 
stuck up and doesn’t care about the common people. Like father, like 
daughter."  
"Don’t you talk about my father." I launched myself at her, but 
Florian grabbed me and lifted me cleanly off the ground . "Let me 
go." I squirmed against her grip, legs swinging uselessly in the air.  
"With pleasure, Your Highness." With that final word, she 
launched me into the air.  
I hit the ground hard and rolled twice before a rock jammed into 
my shoulder, stopping me ab ruptly. Pain throbbed, radiating down 
my arm. The girls continued to laugh while I lay there, trying to catch 
my breath.  
I could feel Farean’s growl in my soul. " I’m okay", I told her.  
"No, you’re  hurt. I will hurt them." 
95  Ash Rober ts 
 I fought the urge to shake my head. She couldn’t see me anyway. 
"Some battles  I have to fight on my own". 
"But-" 
"No, trust me, dear". I stood slowly. My pink gown now bore a gash 
and the fabric around the split was red from my bleeding shoulder.  
Just moving hurt, but I wouldn’t give t hem the satisfaction of 
seeing it. I pushed through the crowd to the barracks door, yanking it 
open, which rewarded me with a fresh wave of pain. I clenched my 
teeth and let the door slam behind me. I braced against the wall for a 
moment before trudging up  the stairs to my room. I fished out my 
makeshift harness, not bothering to change. The opposite stairwell 
led directly to the stables.  
I found Farean resting on some sun -warmed rocks. " I like this place, 
but you don’t. "Her lips pulled back revealing her fanged teeth, an 
expression I’d come to learn was the dragon’s version of a frown.  
"I’m fine," I lied as I patted her snout. Her presence calmed me, 
and my shoulder hurt less already. I held up the harness. "We’re 
going to go for a little flight. It seems I need to go shopping."  
"Ooh, will you get me something? " She lowered her head to let me slide 
the neck rope over it and down onto her chest.  
"Sure. I’ll see if I can find you a nice harness. Something flashy to 
make the other dragons jealous." The image o f a gem -encrusted 
breast plate flashed through my mind, and she nodded approvingly. I 
inspected my progress with the harness and pulled it off before 
rotating it and trying again. Hopefully, the new harness would be 
easier to put on.  
Satisfied, at last, th at I had it on her correctly, I climbed on and 
tied myself in. Then, we leapt into the air and flew out over the lake.  
"Where  are we going? " she asked.  
I bit my lip. " Hmm,  it looks like there is some smoke  on the horizon  to the 
north.  Maybe  that’s a village." 
She banked, and we started towards the grey wisps in the distance. 
I looked down as we flew over the camp. Below, Authand waved his 
hook in the air, shouting something that was lost on the wind. I 
Royal Dragoneer   96 
 waved back as we sped away over the vast expanse of for est that 
covered so much of the realm outside the capital.  
We settled into a languid pace, rising and falling as Farean caught 
thermal currents. I leaned into the ridge along her back, relaxing for 
the first time in days. There was nothing like a good fly to calm me. 
Farean loved to fly, and, despite my initial surprise at the revelation, I 
loved flying with her. Our happiness and contentment fed off each 
other until we were almost in a state of euphoria. I wished we could 
stay in the air forever, away from  court politics and peasant bullies.  
"We have company ", Farean said.  
"Where? " I twisted my head, looking for them.  
"Behind  us. A couple  miles back, but they’re  gaining  on us". The tiny red 
dot could have been anything, but I trusted Farean’s judgement. 
Florian must have so little to do that she would chase after me just to 
continue bullying me.  
"Let’s see if we can lose them in the forest,  "I suggested. As soon as the 
words formed in my mind, she dove below the treetops. Branches 
whipped past us, be she twi sted her body left and right, avoiding any 
collisions. We fell below the upper canopy and leveled out. There 
was no trail, and Farean had to constantly dodge the trunks jutting 
from the ground. But that would make it easier to lose our pursuers.  
A crashing  sound behind us announced they had dropped below 
the trees as well. I leaned forward and urged Farean to go faster. The 
forest blurred around us as she rose above one branch and below the 
next.  
"Stop!" a feminine voice cried behind us, making me look back . It 
wasn’t Florian at least, but I couldn’t think of any good reason for 
someone to be following me through the woods. I couldn’t see 
anyone, and Farean just kept going.  
I turned forward again and saw a giant oak looming ahead of us.  
"Watch  out!" I cried,  but Farean pumped her wings harder, ducking 
a smaller elm in our way. Moments from impact with the oak, she 
spread her wings and caught one of its branches with her rear legs.  
97  Ash Rober ts 
 Momentum carried us forward as her talons shredded the bark 
underneath. We rota ted around the bough and she let go. She 
pumped her wings to steady herself out as we flew in a completely 
different direction than before.  
I listened again, but the noise of those chasing us was receding.  
"That was amazing,  "I praised Farean,"  "my chest heaving with 
exhilaration.  
She replied in mumbled thanks, her attention elsewhere.  
I followed the direction of her head as she glanced up to avoid yet 
another obstacle and then back to the ground where a small grey 
rabbit ran through the underbrush.  
It duc ked into some heather, but Farean skimmed her claw 
through the plant. The rabbit bolted from its hiding spot and back 
into sight. Farean plucked it from the ground and rose back up to the 
mid-story of the forest, making it more difficult for someone to spo t 
us. Then she popped the rabbit into her mouth and swallowed it 
whole. I could feel her neck muscles work the meal down her gullet 
towards her stomach.  
I assumed her little snack meant we weren’t being chased 
anymore. She had heard them a mile away before . She would let me 
know if she heard them again.  
Farean slowed her pace and turned towards a creek, landing on the 
mossy bank gently. As she lapped at the water, and I felt the coolness 
on my own throat, which was nice because I didn’t really want to 
clamb er out of my harness for a drink.  
Farean finished drinking and we took off, staying beneath the tree 
cover, but that made it almost impossible to know which direction 
we were going. We’d long ago lost the smoke of the village or any 
other familiar landmark . I was afraid we were lost.  
"We are still heading  north, " Farean said, matter -of-factly. " I can sense 
directions.  It’s a dragon  thing." 
"So, you’re  like a homing  pigeon? " I asked, laughing.  
"No," she frowned inside my head. " I’m the thing that eats homing  
pigeons. " 
Royal Dragoneer   98 
 "Even so", I thought at her. " Let’s go back above the trees and get our 
bearings. " 
She rose and swerved around another tree. Her pace was more 
languid now. Her snack affected her more than I would have liked. 
As we crested, I saw that we were in deed still headed towards the 
smoke, which was closer now. There was no trace of the dragon that 
had been after us, just a lone hawk circling overhead.  
Clear of any threat, we rose higher and continued towards the gray 
column in the sky. The hawk above us screeched and dove at us. The 
sound was wrong, however, and I realized with a start it was the red 
dragon from before.  
Farean dipped back below the trees, but it was too late. Silver 
talons grabbed her tail, yanking us upward.  
Farean screamed in pain, and I joined her, crying out, as she 
thrashed and tried to free herself from the dragon’s grip. Thankfully, 
it was a small beast, not much larger or older than Farean, who 
grabbed a tree limb and hung on for dear life.  
The other dragon yanked, and we screamed once again as scales 
slaked off Farean’s tail.  
Without warning, the red let go, and we dropped, putting Farean’s 
full weight on the branch. The tree stood no chance against the full 
weight of a quarter -ton animal. The wood cracked and splintered 
before fal ling. As we flailed about, Farean got her wing caught under 
her foreleg. I reached for the joint, but it was too far from the 
harness. I untied the first rope holding me in, but Farean’s tumbling 
flipped us upside down.  
She cried in earnest now. Even if I could get the wing free, she 
couldn’t fly upside down. And I couldn’t get out of the harness with 
only gravity between me and the ground. The fall alone could be 
lethal, and even if I survived it, Farean might come crashing down on 
top of me.  
If that wasn’ t bad enough, the red came diving towards us, the way 
clear now that we’d bashed the forest apart.  
99  Ash Rober ts 
 As its shadow eclipsed us, all I could think was, " I’m sorry Farean.  I 
wish I’d been a better rider for you. " 
"I will be with you forever,  Kalia.  "She thoug ht back" . In death as in life". 

 
 
 
Just as my life flashed before my eyes, a young Elf leapt from the 
red dragon hovering over us. Rope uncoiled above her, and she 
landed with a thump onto Farean’s belly.  
It took every ounce of my willpower to turn and look at her, as 
Farean’s panic pounded through my chest.  
Esgeril hooked her legs around Farean’s neck. She leaned down 
but pulled back just before the whole world shuddered and blurred 
before a crack announced a nother tree limb yielding to our weight.  
Esgeril leaned down again, carefully, slowly, and pulled on 
Farean’s forelimb.  
Farean, panicked, instinctually fighting against her.  
"Tell her to relax," Esgeril said to me.  
"But we’re going to die," I answered.  
"Not if you do what I tell you. Now relax."  
I took a deep breath and then another. " Farean ", "let her help you". I 
sent to her, with calming vibes. " It’s our only hope." 
And, little by little, Farean relaxed the tension in her leg.  
Esgeril gave it another pul l and freed Farean’s wing. Before we 
had a chance to react, Esgeril gave a tug on her rope and rose from 
Farean. I looked up in time to see her dragon land on a branch clear 
of our destruction.  
Still looking up, my body lurched as Farean rolled and spread her 
wings to slow our descent. She pumped furiously and when we 
reached the next branch, she was able to grab hold of it. We landed 
hard against it but didn’t fall.  
Royal Dragoneer   102 
 I held my breath as my heartbeat slowed. Exhaling, I looked 
down. There was nothing below u s but ground. A scant twenty feet 
of air separated us from what would have been our last "landing." 
Farean trembled as that realization struck home for her as well.  
Esgeril and her dragon swept past us and landed on the ground a 
few feet away.  
Unwilling to  give up the grip that had been so hard won, Farean 
climbed down the trunk backwards like a treed cat. The going was 
slow, but neither of us wanted to be airborne just yet.  
Esgeril stood next to her red dragon, tapping her foot with arms 
crossed as we reac hed the ground.  
Once down, Farean collapsed onto the leafy forest floor, pressing 
herself to it like it was her best friend. I couldn’t blame her. I nearly 
tore the ropes off my harness in an attempt to dismount and kiss the 
ground myself.  
The final rope u ntied, I slid off her back in a maneuver that would 
have left my mother cringing if she’d witnessed it. I faked a stumble 
and sat next to my dragon digging my fingers into the soil. I looked 
up and caught Esgeril shaking her head.  
"Why were you chasing us? " I demanded, angry and full of 
needless adrenaline now that I wasn’t going to die. "You nearly killed 
us?" 
She flinched at my verbal assault, her eyes wide. "Nearly killed 
you? I saved your lives."  
Behind us, the dragons growled. " Let me deal with this, "I told 
Farean. "And thank you for that," I shouted at Esgeril. "But we 
wouldn’t have needed saving if you hadn’t attacked us."  
"If you hadn’t run away, we wouldn’t have had to chase you."  
"I had quite enough teasing for one day, thank you very much. I 
didn’t need you following me to town and harassing me more."  
"Harass? What are you talking about? Colonel Authand sent me 
after you because you’re not allowed to leave camp without 
permission."  
103  Ash Rober ts 
 "Well, I was going to town to get gear," I said, my anger waning a  
little. "Everybody keeps telling me as Dragoneer can’t wear dresses, 
but that’s all I have." I looked down at my sun dress, which was 
ripped in a dozen different spots now, not just the tear on the 
shoulder. Underneath, my skin was covered in scratches. B lood 
stained the torn fabric, but I couldn’t find the source on my body.  
Esgeril grinned at my sorry state. At first, she covered her mouth 
to hide the smile, but then her lips pursed, and her face contorted. 
Finally, she could hold it no longer and erupted into a full -on 
chuckle.  
"What’s so funny," I demanded.  
She ignored me as she dropped to her knees and beat the ground 
with her fists.  
"Stop it." I protested, but somehow found myself grinning too.  
She tried to compose herself but broke into another  fit of snorting 
laughter. Finally, she got it under control as she huffed for breath. 
"You were going the wrong direction," she said.  
"How was I supposed to know that. I don’t even know why I’m 
here. Everything I do is wrong."  
Her smile waned. "You’re new . And you don’t know much. That’s 
true. But you definitely belong here. That was some of the best flying 
I’ve ever seen."  
"Really? It was mostly Farean. And I’m sure it wasn’t anything 
special."  
Esgeril put a hand on my shoulder. "Both of my parents are 
Dragoneers; dragons practically raised me. I’ve never seen anyone 
maneuver through the woods like that. You should try out for the 
Dragon Race."  
The Dragon Race only happened once per century, and the 
winners’ species had bragging rights until the next one. Some had 
wanted the upcoming event cancelled due to the Goblin wars. The 
Nightbloods, the current trophy holders, had been the most vocal in 
favor of that plan. But my father had brokered a deal. In two years, 
the winner would lead the combined dragon armi es against the 
Royal Dragoneer   104 
 Goblins. But the idea of me and Farean winning was ridiculous. This 
was probably just another cruel joke Dragoneers pulled on unwanted 
first-years.  
"There’s no way I could win," I told Esgeril. "I probably wouldn’t 
even place in the qualifyi ng Run. People have spent their entire lives 
training for the Race."  
"They have." She nodded. "But half of them don’t show the skill 
you just demonstrated without any training at all. But it doesn’t 
matter to me if you enter." She shrugged. "If we don’t ge t you back, 
you’ll never be a Dragoneers anyway. If we hurry, there might still be 
time to go shopping today."  
She pulled herself onto her dragon’s back in a single motion and 
hooked herself into the harness. In a blink, they were airborne, rising 
up throu gh the hole in the forest canopy we’d made.  
Farean and I looked at each other. Neither of us was eager to fly 
again so soon, but we really didn’t have a choice. I trembled slightly 
as I mounted her and retied the knots on my makeshift harness. 
Farean lifte d off and we rose above the trees, taking a much more 
leisurely pace than Esgeril. They flew in meandering circles as they 
waited for us. Once we reached their altitude, they too off toward 
camp.  
We followed, but Farean stayed well behind. She wasn’t about  to 
let another dragon get within talon’s reach of her in the air again.  
The sun reached its zenith as we approached the camp. My 
stomach rumbled, reminding me that I hadn’t eaten since yesterday. 
After landing, I cast a glance towards the dining hall, but  Esgeril 
shook her head and took off towards the Colonel’s office. I could 
smell the scent of freshly baked bread wafting from the cafeteria, but 
I turned my back on it and followed after her.  
Being a dragon unconcerned by human rules and protocols, 
Farean  wandered towards where sides of beef were being handed out 
to dragons for their noon meal. I’d do anything to trade places with 
her right now.  
105  Ash Rober ts 
 The aide stood at the open door to the Colonel’s office, and he 
waved us in. We were obviously expected, but not  in a good way. I 
didn’t even have a chance for my eyes to adjust to the dim indoors 
before Colonel shouted, "Get in here right now! You, too. Esgeril."  
Her eyes grew large at being included, but she didn’t hesitate to 
follow me into the dragon’s den.  
The Colonel thumped his hook against his desk, chips of wood 
flying in various directions. "Kalia, maybe you could do whatever you 
pleased at the castle, but in the Dragoneers, we have rules that must 
be followed. You can’t run off without permission."  
"I didn ’t know."  
"That’s right, you didn’t. Because you haven’t bothered to learn 
the first thing about your duties. Starting tomorrow, you have no free 
time. When others are off relaxing, you’ll be reporting to Flatch for 
additional lessons. You will do this eve ry day until you’ve caught up 
with the rest of your hatching group."  
"Fine," I said. "But I need riding clothes. Apparently, my dresses 
aren’t quite sturdy enough."  
He looked over my tattered dress.  
I’d forgotten how much skin was exposed. I hunched my 
shoulders forward to make myself smaller.  
He shook his head. "No, they aren’t. But you must understand 
that Goblins have been spotted in this area, and the rules are there 
for your safety. You might feel invincible in the air, but greyskin are 
stealthy in the  wood. If you land your beast for a drink, you’re likely 
to find a blade coming out your chest." He raised his hook and 
waved it in front of me. "I lost my hand to Goblin’s defending your 
grandfather’s land because I got too cocky. And you know what 
happen ed to him. Don’t forget that. Never let your guard down."  
I gulped. No, I wouldn’t forget seeing my grandpa die. But I had 
forgotten the dangers that lurked, even after what had happened to 
Lewon and me on the way to Theron’s farm. I guess I had been so 
pissed off about the scrape with Florian and her gang, that I’d lost 
my head.  
Royal Dragoneer   106 
 "So, I have a quandary." The Colonel said. "You will be 
disciplined, but you also need riding gear before you can perform 
your punishment." He sat back down, a look of contemplation on his 
face. "You haven’t had a good start with the other girls, have you?" 
He asked.  
I shook my head, not meeting his gaze. I’d been taught grace and 
poise, but that didn’t seem to matter for anything out here. Instead, it 
had brought me sco rn and ridicule.  
He mulled the dilemma over, scratching at his chin with the blunt 
edge of his hook. Then, he seemed to finally remember that Esgeril 
was in the room with us. "Esgeril, you will accompany her to get 
gear, helping her discern what she needs.  And then you, Kalia," He 
turned back to me, "will spend tomorrow working in the stables for 
the stunt you pulled today."  
Esgeril gave me a sympathetic glance. Stable duty was bad. I had 
helped Theron clean out the pig sties a few times, and they were 
small animals, but it had been back -breaking work. And of course, I’d 
cleaned up after Farean, but she was petite for a dragon. But Esgeril 
didn’t argue about her duty, and neither did I. We both just nodded, 
and I gave out a soft, "Yes, sir."  
The Colonel was already examining a scroll on his desk. Without 
looking up he barked, "Dismissed!"  
We didn’t need to the told twice and quickly fled the office.  
"The town with shops is south of here," Esgeril said, heading for 
the stables. "We’d better head out before he changes his mind."  
I was starving, but maybe there would a chance to eat in town. At 
the stable, I had to pull Farean away from her meal, hoping she 
hadn’t eaten too much to affect her flying. She was grumpy about 
leaving again, and I couldn’t blame her. I  tied my rope harness 
together, and we were back in the air.  
Riders can’t really chat when they flew. The distance, wind, and 
velocity made it almost impossible to converse. That’s why our mind -
speak with our dragons was so useful. So, Esgeril and I rode i n 
silence for an hour before smoke on the horizon announced the 
107  Ash Rober ts 
 presence of a settlement. My stomach gurgled anew, and Farean 
picked up her pace, feeling my hunger. We landed at a wide pavilion 
made of black rocks. After we dismounted, the two dragons quic kly 
curled up upon the stones and I could feel Farean slip into a slumber. 
A path led into the village proper, and Esgeril and I started down it. I 
recited a list of what I thought I might need, and she nodded without 
speaking, picking up her pace. Despite  her being a full head shorter 
than me, I had to jog to keep up.  
Esgeril led me down the dirt street to the tradesmen’s section of 
town. I slowed at each food stall until she had mercy on me. She 
reached into a pouch and handed me some bread and a pinch of  
stimleaf. "Rule number one of being a Dragoneer. Always pack a 
snack, because you never know when your next meal will be. Now 
hurry and eat this before we go inside."  
I didn’t have to be told twice and wolfed it down, hardly bothering 
to chew.  
A bell on t he door gave a quiet ring as we entered a small shop. A 
short woman dressed in a leather vest over a faded blue dress popped 
her head out from behind a curtain. She saw Esgeril and smiled. 
"Dear, how have you been? Look at you, you’re getting so tall. I’m 
going to have to put a stack of rocks on your head." She brought 
Esgeril into a fierce hug, her head barely above that of the young 
Dragoneer.  
"Aunt Tirada, this is Princess Kalia." Esgeril extracted herself 
from the older woman’s grasp.  
Tirada stopped bre athing a moment. Her eyes widened before 
springing into action, dropping to a knee so fast that she nearly took 
her niece down with her.  
I blushed for the millionth time today. "Please, stand up. Besides, 
I’m not even a princess anymore." I frowned.  
She ro se and wrapped her arms around me. "I’d heard rumors that 
there was an upheaval in the capital with dragons involved, but didn’t 
know they involved you, my child."  
I stiffened. "I’m not a child," my voice cracked.  
Royal Dragoneer   108 
 She pulled away from me, staring into my e yes. "No, of course 
not. You are a beautiful young woman and now a Dragoneer to boot. 
Once you adjust to the changes in your life, there will be nothing to 
stop you." She glanced over my torn dress. Not for the first time 
today, I wished I’d had a chance t o change before we left. "Now I’m 
guessing you came for some proper riding gear?"  
I nodded, and she whirled into motion. She plucked a tape 
measure from nowhere and took measurements which she chalked 
onto a slate she kept tucked in her apron pocket. Withi n a minute she 
had measured every inch of me as thoroughly as the Royal Taylor did 
in an hour.  
"You’re in luck," she said, smiling. "You’re almost an exact match 
for riding gear I was already working on. I can adjust it and have it 
ready this afternoon. I’ ll just make a new set for the customer it was 
intended for."  
"I couldn’t –" I started, but she put a hand up and shushed me.  
"Tut-tut," she said. "She won’t be back until next week anyway. 
That gives me plenty of time. Do you need a harness?"  
I looked at the rope marks on my arms and my ankles and 
nodded.  
"Farean is about ten hands tall and maybe five wide," Esgeril said. 
"But she’s only as old as Baran. My guess is she will be near twice 
that by the time she is full -grown."  
Tirada nodded and disappeared i nto the back. She returned with a 
heavy looking saddle with straps longer than my arm that terminated 
in steel buckles. She handed it to me, and I nearly threw it in the air, 
surprised by how light it was. My hand slid over the saddle. Like the 
harness its elf, it weighed next to nothing.  
She noticed my puzzlement and explained, "Aluminte. It’s difficult 
to get but extremely light."  
My hand instinctively went for my purse. I had a fair amount, 
probably more than anyone else at the training camp. But it would n’t 
last forever, and I didn’t think I would ever see another dime from 
my parents.  
109  Ash Rober ts 
 "I might need something a little more basic," I admitted.  
"No, you misunderstand," Tirada said. "This is a gift. And I’m so 
glad to see Esgeril has made a friend. She’s been so withdrawn since 
her father died."  
Esgeril glared at her aunt. "I have not. I’ve just been busy. 
Speaking of which, Kalia needs to see if that harness fits, and you 
have a suit of leathers to finish." She tugged at my arm and pulled me 
towards the d oor. 
"I—well, thank you." I stammered. "Still, I must pay you 
something." But Esgeril had already pulled me out to the street.  
"You can argue with her about payment when we come back for 
the riding leathers," she said. "But I can already tell you, you’ll l ose."  
I followed her, shifting the saddle to a two -handed grip as I 
struggled to keep up with her half -run towards the dragon stones. 
She turned a corner, and I called, "Wait up."  
Around the building, she stood waiting, impatiently tapping her 
foot. 
"Hey, what’s the rush?" I asked. "We can’t leave until the leathers 
are done anyway, and your aunt was really nice."  
"I know," she said, rolling her eyes. "My entire family is painfully 
nice."  
"And that bothers you?" I asked, incredulous.  
"Listen," she said, sto pping and whirling toward me. "I love my 
family, okay, but they always look on the bright side. They always 
have a smile for everyone. Or a kind word or deed. And things aren’t 
always rainbows and happiness. Sometimes things suck, and they just 
don’t get t hat." 
"Okay," I said, taken back by her vehemence. "So, you’re sad, and 
they don’t get that?" I took a stab at her problem with her overly -
cheerful family.  
"Exactly!" she threw up her arms in frustration. "My father died 
nine months ago, and I’m supposed t o be over it? I’m supposed to 
put on a happy face and smile for the family, so they won’t worry 
about me. I don’t know how they can just move on like he never 
Royal Dragoneer   110 
 existed. It’s not right. Who will remember him if we don’t? It’s like 
they’re erasing his existen ce with their smiles and pat phrases. And 
every time I see them, they expect me to erase him too." She 
stopped, tears glistening in her eyes, glancing around and realizing we 
were still on the street, though no one was really paying attention to 
us. 
"I saw  my grandpa die when I was five." I said, feeling her pain. 
"No one can ever erase that. How did your father die?"  
"It was a Goblin ambush," Esgeril said. "My parents were riding 
on a routine patrol when a net caught mom’s dragon and dad caught 
a spear try ing to cut them loose." I could see her knuckles turning 
white as she pressed her fingers into her palms. "The day he died, I 
vowed I’d become a Dragoneer and avenge his death." She took off, 
headed around another corner and I followed, our dragons coming 
into view as we rounded it.  
Farean picked up her head, cocking it slightly. " Baran  says they will 
kill every Goblin  in the kingdoms ". "Is that our job now?" 
"Goblins killed Esgeril’s father," I explained.  
Farean’s eyes narrowed. " Then we will help them". 
I couldn’t imagine ever killing someone, even as hideous a creature 
as a Goblin. I mean, I knew it would be part of my job as a 
Dragoneer. But I had once thought just like Esgeril about dragons —
that they were hideous beasts —that they should all die because of 
what one had done to my grandfather. And now I had a dragon as a 
best friend and companion. Was it possible we had misjudged 
Goblins in the same manner?  
It was a startling thought, but one I couldn’t easily dismiss.  
 
 
 
I put my new harness on Farean’s back and Esgeril showed me 
how to connect the straps. The front went on the opposite side of 
her forelegs than I had put the ropes. The saddle felt firmer and 
much more secure. The scalloped underside of the buc kles fit against 
the scales of her belly as if they had been molded to them.  
Esgeril directed Farean to fly and do some loops to see how she 
could move in it. I stepped forward, but she put a hand on my 
shoulder. "You don’t have your gear yet. There’s noth ing for the 
straps to connect to. And riding without a harness usually ends 
poorly."  
I thought back to my first ride when I had slid from Farean’s back 
before she was more than a few feet in the air. I nodded. " Go on," I 
told Farean. " Fly without  me. I’ll be down here admiring  your grace." 
Exhilarated by my flattery, she leapt into the air. Baran followed 
Farean into the sky and they swooped around each other, diving at 
each other in mock attacks and generally frolicking in the sun.  
"Baran is a male?" I ask ed blushing, but the answer was obvious 
by what her dragon displayed when he flew overhead. "I thought 
dragons only bonded with riders of the same gender."  
"Sometimes they don’t." Esgeril didn’t add anything more to that.  
We watched them in silence for som e time before I heard Farean 
whine. " Aww,  I don’t want to". Baran landed on the rocks and Farean 
followed him to the ground. I removed the harness and placed it with 
Esgeril’s in a large metal box near the edge of the pavilion.  
We were halfway back to Tira da’s shop before I broke the silence. 
"If you don’t mind telling me, I was wondering what happened to 
your father’s dragon after he died."  
Royal Dragoneer   112 
 She slowed almost to a stop. "The bond between a Dragoneer and 
dragon is very strong. Unbreakable. I’ve known Dragone ers who lost 
their dragon and have barely been able to function after that. Some 
don’t. The Dragoneers have a home in the mountains where those 
who can’t take it are sent, broken husks of Elves and other races so 
catatonic that the healers have to feed and  bathe them."  
I shuddered at the thought. "But what if the dragon survives their 
rider?" I couldn’t imagine similar homes for dragons.  
"A dragon that’s lost their rider is dangerous. They lose their 
minds. They have to be put down or they will attack anyon e, even 
friends."  
"Is that what happened to…"  
"To Niden? No. Dad died in battle. If a rider -less dragon in peace 
is dangerous, one in battle is even more so. Niden took down an 
entire company of Goblins before being brought down by their 
archers. It allowe d mom and Susa to escape." Her voice caught again, 
and this time tears openly rolled down her cheeks. I thought she was 
done speaking, but she resumed. "Then those beasts, those 
abominations, they ate him. Goblins eat dragon met, and they ate 
dad’s dragon in front of his corpse."  
I had no words to comfort her. In fact, I was kind of feeling 
traumatized and in need of comfort myself. Fortunately, we had 
arrived at Tirada’s shop, and I could turn my mind to other matters.  
As we entered, Tiranda was pushing a wooden mannequin out to 
the floor. On it were the new riding leathers, the same Aluminte 
buckles shining around the waist, waiting to accept the straps from 
Farean’s harness. The breastplate was dyed blue nearly equal in color 
to her scales, although, look ing closer, I noticed the royal gold and 
black woven into the stitching. The design reversed for the pants 
with black suede inlaid with blue.  
I sucked in my breath. "It’s beautiful. But how did you make it so 
quickly?"  
Tirada shook her head. "Like I told y ou. This was nearly finished 
already. It needed only some minor modifications. And a happy 
113  Ash Rober ts 
 accident that both your dragon and the originally client’s are Blue. I 
sent your measurements to a tailor and had some more day -to-day 
clothes sent over." She pointe d to a bundle tied in sackcloth on a 
wooden chair. "There’s only a couple sets, but it should get you 
through until you can get back to order a new wardrobe when you 
have more time."  
I looked down at my feet, still clad in the leather boots Theron 
had give n me. "That may be a while." I said, thinking about Authand 
and how little he trusted me.  
"Well, we hope to see you again soon." Tiranda smiled. "If you 
want to change out of that dress, you can use my workroom behind 
the curtain," she said, pointing.  
"I can help if you want," Esgeril said shyly. "Riding leathers can be 
a little confusing the first time."  
"Thank you," I said, grabbing the bundle of clothes while Esgeril 
wheeled the mannequin through the curtain. The area dwarfed the 
front of the shop and li ght streamed through large windows on either 
side positioned high on the walls to capture the most daylight. The 
space was tidy, with even the sheets of leather meticulously stacked 
with edges aligned. Father always said that an organized workspace 
was a s ign of a master craftsman.  
I quickly shed my tattered dress. I gave my chest wrap a cursory 
inspection, but it seemed to have made it through my adventures 
unscathed. Tiranda had given me two functional sets of clothing in 
brown, similar to the ones that E sgeril wore under her riding garb. 
The shirt gave me no problem, but the breeches only reached mid -
thigh before getting stuck.  
I lowered them, but Esgeril put her hand on my arm. "You forgot 
to undo the clasp." Her hand moved to a wooden toggle between my 
legs, accidentally brushing the inside of my thigh. The touch made 
me shudder. It was involuntary, embarrassing, and Esgeril definitely 
noticed, immediately jerking her hand away.  
"The only trousers I’ve ever worn were much too big on me, and I 
could just slide them up. I never wore pants before I was thrown 
Royal Dragoneer   114 
 out," I said sheepishly. "Mother said it wasn’t ladylike." I studied the 
toggle intently, and then fumbled with pushing it through the hole.  
"And you’ve never opened the fly of somebody cute, hidden fro m 
sight in some dark corner of the castle?" She grinned lecherously at 
me. 
"What? No! I had a boyfriend. We were engaged, but all we ever 
did was kiss. There was always some servant around to keep an eye 
on us." I didn’t like thinking of Etlin. I’d been av oiding thinking of 
him for weeks. And now I was beginning to realize our relationship 
hadn’t been the romantic, passionate courtship I’d imagined it to be. 
There was so much I didn’t know about boys. And despite the fact 
that it looked like Lewon had set m e up this morning, I still felt 
drawn to him. I gave a sidelong glance at Esgeril, daring to ask, "Do 
you think that’s something Lewon would expect me to do?"  
Her expression darkened at his name. "He comes from the west." 
She shrugged. "They favor  fast, hot courtships there. Why? Do you 
fancy him?"  
"Yeah," I admitted. "I wouldn’t mind his parents, err, his guardian, 
arranging a match with mine."  
She snorted in laughter, not even bothering to cover her mouth. 
"Arranging a match?" she choked out. "Th at’s rich. Dragoneers don’t 
arrange marriage. We rarely bother with marrying at all."  
The color drained from my face. "Not even your parents?"  
The mention of her recently deceased father sobered her quickly. 
"They loved each other very much. More than the couples in your 
fancy court, I’d bet. But when ma had me, dad simply moved in with 
her, and they informed their commander they would need to ride in 
the same company."  
It didn’t seem right to me, but the look on Esgeril’s face made me 
drop the subject. She  scowled to herself while I examined my 
reflection in the polished metal mirror in the corner. The garments fit 
well, much better than I would have expected from a provincial 
tailor. I was beginning to rethink my belief that the capital had all the 
115  Ash Rober ts 
 best tr adespeople. I picked up the leathers and held them up to 
Esgeril.  
Wordlessly, she took them from me and directed my limbs into 
the appropriate holes, like her personal puppet. I felt badly that I’d 
upset her asking about her parents. But I couldn’t take it  back.  
I fastened the buckles and examined myself again. They fit like a 
second skin, tight enough to keep from binding but loose enough to 
allow free movement. As I admired myself, Esgeril stormed out, 
pushing past the curtain.  
I followed her out to the m ain part of the shop, but she was 
already out the door, standing on the curb, her shoulders hunched.  
Tiranda followed my gaze and shook her head. "She just needs 
some space. Just be there for her as a friend. That is the best thing 
for her. If you can do t hat, I will consider myself the better end of 
the bargain for your leathers."  
"You don’t have to buy my friendship," I protested. "I need a 
friend as much as she does. And I have to pay you something. At 
least let me cover the cost of materials."  
"Not toda y, young lady. I insist." Her face hardened, and I 
withered under her glare. She giggled at my expression, her face 
softening. "Esgeril is my only remaining family. I would give anything 
to see her happy again. And her father’s death isn’t the only thing 
she’s dealing with. Now go, before she takes off and you get lost in 
town." She pushed me in the direction of the door just as Esgeril 
stepped off the curb, heading back toward our dragons without me.  
I looked back, breathed, "thank you," and left, chasing Esgeril 
down the street.  
We reached the dragons in silence. I was getting a little tired of the 
cold-shoulder treatment but remembered Tirada’s advice to just be 
present. Esgeril waited in silence for me to strap myself into my new 
harness on Farean’s back . It took a couple of tries, but she didn’t say 
anything or offer advice from her position on Baran’s back. Then, we 
lifted off and rode back to camp, arriving as the sun approached the 
horizon.  
Royal Dragoneer   116 
 After we landed, I removed the harness and set it in a box in  the 
stable with Farean’s name on it. Tomorrow, I’d be cleaning the 
stable, polishing and oiling other rider’s saddles, and who knew what 
other back -breaking work. And I wasn’t looking forward to it.  
I looked up to find that Esgeril was already gone.  
Someh ow, I’d managed to make my first female Dragoneer friend 
and lose her, all in the same day. So much for Tirada’s vote of 
confidence in me. Mother always said I asked too many questions —
that I was too curious. But I didn’t know how to be any other way.  
I made my way back to my room, catching glares and stares from 
Florian and her friends. I dropped to my straw mattress, not 
bothering to change.  
It wasn’t until I was about to fall asleep that I remembered the 
after-dinner training meeting at the lake Lewon ha d promised me.  
Had he waited there for me, wondering why I hadn’t come? Or 
had his invitation been just another joke to humiliate the princess 
Dragoneer?  
I had no idea. And honestly, at that point, I was too tired to care.  
 
 
 
I stood before the entrance to the dragon stables in the early 
morning light. I was beginning to understand why Father chewed 
stimleaf every morning. Thinking of him brought a twinge, as always. 
But if this was to be my lot in life, I was de termined to make the 
most of it.  
Metal clanged behind me. "You’ll need these," Esgeril said. She 
held a bucket in one hand and a rake in the other. "These should be 
inside, but I overheard Florian last night. Don’t expect to find any 
supplies."  
"Thank you, " I tried to meet her gaze, but I guess what I had said 
the day before was still too raw, and she looked away. "Where are 
yours?" I asked.  
"It's not my punishment." She jammed her fists in her pockets. 
Dragoneer pockets were designed for function, unlike the clothing 
I'd once owned. Half of my outfits didn't even have pockets. What 
need did I have to carry things? I had servants for that. But now I 
could carry supplies for a day or more in the pouches that adorned 
my clothing. Or, apparently the hands of s omebody that was upset at 
me for reasons she wouldn't say.  
"Just do yourself a favor," Esgeril said after a pause. "Don't say 
anything like that to the others. It won't —" The toe of her boot slid 
through the dirt between us. "It won't end well for you." Wi th that 
cryptic message, she turned and left.  
Has Baran  told you what's  going on?I asked Farean. Because  I'm lost. 
He says that it is beneath  the affairs  of dragons.  I'm going back to sleep. 
Menoth  is in heat, and I got no sleep last night due to the males boasting  of how 
they would  mate her. 
Royal Dragoneer   118 
 I blushed at the image she sent over and my mind slipped to 
Lewon. Would he fight others for my hand? I imagine Etlin’s father 
had argued with the other dukes over whose toddler would marry me 
one day.  
None of this remi niscing about my life before the hatching would 
get me through my punishment more quickly. Clutching Esgeril's 
rake and bucket, I pushed open the door.  
Mucking the pens at Theron's had prepared me somewhat for the 
smell, but dragons were much bigger creatu res than pigs. Stalls lined 
all four walls for the distance of the building. It seemed smaller on 
the inside, until I realized the far wall was a divider for the other half. 
Just as the boys and girls at the camp were separated, so were our 
dragons. That m eant that Esgeril had to walk the entire length of the 
massive building just to enter from the boy's side.  
"It's about time you showed up." The laughter of several girls 
broke me from my thoughts. "Thinking you're just going to waltz in 
here after we're al l done?" I didn't need to look up. I'd only heard 
Florian’s voice once, but I wouldn’t forget it. I had a feeling I'd be 
hearing a lot of it over the next three years. "Don't worry, we 
wouldn't dream of denying her highness what she deserves."  
I looked ove r to the stall where they were sitting. Florian leaned 
against her Green dragon's hide which seemed to melt into the 
shadows behind her. The other girls from yesterday arranged 
themselves on pails nearby. Florian’s dragon’s stall was immaculate, 
but the ot hers were untouched.  
"I'm sorry about yesterday. I don't want any trouble," I said.  
"Then you better get to work. We've got our stalls covered. You 
can take care of the rest. But you better hurry. Somebody told 
Authand that you were avoiding your punishmen t." On that cue, the 
girls scattered to their own stalls as the door opened behind me.  
"Why aren't you cleaning?" The Colonel's voiced boomed behind 
me. 
119  Ash Rober ts 
 I whirled around with the rake still in my hand. Authand grabbed 
the implement from me before it hit hi s face and threw it at my feet. 
Even the dragons fell silent as they waited for his reaction.  
"I'm sorry," I said in a small voice. Why was I always saying that 
here? It was like I could never get anything right.  
He didn't move; he barely even breathed. Wh en Father got like 
that, I knew what came next wouldn't be good.  
"Why aren't you cleaning?" He repeated at last. "Why isn't anyone 
cleaning? Do you all want another day of punishment?" He said, 
louder. The words echoed off the stone walls. Florian and her friends 
scurried back to work, leaving me with an empty bucket and an angry 
Dragoneer.  
"I just got here. " I admitted after my ears stopped ringing.  
"Another day's punishment for tardiness." Authand looked like he 
was going to say something else but left i nstead.  
I leaned down to pick up the rake, but Florian stepped on the 
handle, pinning it to the floor. "You don't belong here," she said.  
"Don't you think I know that?" I stood, facing here. She was 
nearly a head taller than me and I had to look up to meet  her glare.  
She crossed her arms over her chest. "What a waste of a dragon. 
They shouldn't let you nobles come to the hatchings. There's 
someone out there who has worked hard their entire life, 
heartbroken and stuck in their life because you took their cha nce to 
become a Dragoneer."  
Florian turned her head back towards her companions who had 
mucked out their stalls into the central hallway. It was the space the 
dragons fed into when they entered through holes in the ceiling. 
"Come on, girls. We're done. The  rest is for her highness." Without a 
word, they filed past me.  
Over the next four hours, I carefully cleaned out each dragon's 
stall. As the day progressed, they woke and left. Their great wings 
spun over the muck pile, and I had to take several breaks to  move it 
outside. Other riders entered to tend to their dragons, but they 
ignored me as I worked. Was this how the maids in the castle had felt 
Royal Dragoneer   120 
 when I’d pretended they weren't even in the room with me unless I’d 
needed something? It was a horrible feeling and I vowed I would do 
better if I was ever allowed to return.  
 
 
 
The next morning, I followed Esgeril to a small arena near the 
dragon pavilion for the first class of the day —Tactics. But the 
professor, a small  woman with deep lines in her face, turned me 
away. "You are so far behind, dear, that you have no clue what is 
going on. Authand wants you to report to Flatch, instead."  
The Dragoneers who had arrived before us stared at me as I left 
the room, murmuring b etween themselves, undoubtedly discussing 
how much of a fool I’d made of myself once again. I went back 
outside and realized that I did not know how to find Flatch or even 
who he was. I turned and steeled myself to go back in and ask in 
front of everyone, cementing my reputation as the camp idiot.  
"Ho," a raspy voice called behind me. A whitehaired Elf stood 
hunched over where there had been no one a moment before. 
"Follow me." He turned sharply and strode across the grounds.  
Figuring he couldn’t possibly b e a new rider, I chased after him. I 
was surprised by how quickly he moved and was huffing by the time 
we reached a small hut by the lake. He pointed at a small rock half 
buried in the sand, and I took the hint to sit.  
"In the mornings, I will teach you th eory and, in the afternoon, 
you will go with Lewon to train."  
Had Lewon asked for that privilege or been assigned to me? Well, 
at least I’d get to ask him if he’d set me up in the Capture the Flag 
game.  
"Did you say something? Speak up, girl. My hearing is n’t what it 
used to be."  
"I didn’t say anything."  
Royal Dragoneer   122 
 "Good. Best to keep your mouth shut and your ears open." He 
disappeared into the hut and came back with a wooden chair that he 
placed in front of my rock, finally introducing himself as Flatch. He 
then sett led into his chair before launching into a history of the 
Dragoneers. My mind wandered, and I paid more attention to the 
position of the sun than to the lecture. I tracked its progress to its 
zenith thinking of seeing Lewon again. Finally, the bells tolled , 
signaling lunch. I said a quick thanks to Flatch for the lesson I had 
ignored and rushed off to the dining hall.  
After lunch, Farean and I flew to the spot by the lake where 
Lewon had said he would meet me. Calen splashed in the lake while 
Lewon whittled  away at a stick with a mean looking knife.  
"Sticks  are boring ". Farean commented, as we set down on the 
sandy beach. " Except  the big sticks Goblins  make to puncture  dragon  hide". 
My poor little dragon baby was growing up and learning the 
dangers of the wo rld. The thought made me sad.  
I fumbled with my harness buckles, hoping Lewon wouldn’t 
notice.  
I climbed down and took the saddle off Farean, saying, "Well, go 
on, then. Have fun and see what Calen can teach you." She took a 
running jump into the shallows and landed with a splash that 
threatened to soak me despite my distance.  
Lewon shoved his stick point down into the ground and folded his 
knife before acknowledging my presence. "You sure know how to 
get yourself in trouble. In just one day, you managed to  find more 
trouble than most Dragoneers find their entire first year."  
"Maybe I had some help," I said angrily, eyeing him. "You pointed 
me to a flag with a Green ambush around it, promising I’d the hero 
of the game. And somehow, it didn’t work out that wa y." 
"You think I set you up?" He asked, sounding hurt. "Do you really 
believe that of me after all we’ve been through together?" He was 
upset, that much was obvious. But was it because he’d been falsely 
accused, or caught in the act?  
123  Ash Rober ts 
 "I don’t know," I said , moving toward him. "Yesterday I was 
humiliated, mocked by my peers, tossed by a giant, almost died crash -
landing into a forest, didn’t eat all day, and managed to piss off the 
one other person who’s been remotely nice to me. It was a really bad 
day."  
"Well, now you’ve managed to piss off both people who’ve been 
nice to you," he said, but he was grinning. "You seem to have a real 
knack for it."  
"I know." I nodded, my blond curls falling in my face. "I’m very 
talented. Which is exactly why I need your help.  Please teach me so I 
don’t get into any more trouble."  
He shook his head. "I’m going to teach you how to fight. How to 
defend yourself and how to attack. Not really skills that will get you 
in less trouble." He pulled a scabbard down from the tree branch 
he’d been sitting under and handed it to me. "This is a practice 
sword. Completely dull edge."  
I held the short -sword. It was heavier than I expected. How did 
everyone carry these things around?  
"I don’t see why you need that," Farean complained, pausing h er 
splashing in the shallows. " Surely  a sword  is no match  for my talons ". 
"Because you won’t always be on dragon -back," Lewon answered 
as if he’d heard her. Maybe Calen had passed along what Farean had 
said. "Now hold up your sword," he instructed.  
I raised it above my head with both hands, then saw him grasping 
his one handed in front of his chest. I quickly lowered mine, passing 
it from hand to hand as if checking for balance before settling it into 
my right hand and assuming a similar position.  
He blinked. "You’re right handed? That’s going to make this more 
difficult. I’ve never met anyone before who didn’t favor their left."  
My face soured. "We spent nearly three full days together and you 
didn’t realize I was a righty?" Righties like me were rar e, sometimes 
considered abominations among the lower classes. If I had been a 
child in a trade, my right hand would have been tied behind my back 
until I’d learned to work with my left. But being a princess had 
Royal Dragoneer   124 
 certain advantages, including the right to us e whatever hand I 
preferred.  
But Lewon hadn’t even noticed until now. Which either meant he 
didn’t care about the stigma, or he didn’t care about me enough to 
notice.  
I lunged at him with my sword.  
He took a step to his right, dropping away from my thrust with 
ease. 
I swung again, and he blocked. I made several more attempts, each 
more impotent than the last, until I stood bent over, huffing from the 
exertion.  
"That wasn’t bad for your first try,’ Lewon praised me. "Now that 
I’ve seen your natural stance an d style, I know what I need to teach 
you."  
"You made me mad on purpose?" I managed in between pants, as 
my glare softened.  
"Of course. Righties tend to be sensitive about it. It was a sure 
way to get you riled up." He smiled.  
I couldn’t believe he’d baited  me like that. And I’d fallen for it, 
hook, line, and sinker. I was going to have to be careful around this 
one. He already knew me to well for his own good. And for mine.  
I turned just in time to see Farean, in flight, burst through the 
trees with Calen h ot on her trail. I hadn’t even noticed them leave the 
lake. Farean tucked her wings in and dove towards the water. My 
heart pounded as she approached it with rising speed. At the last 
moment, she unfurled her wings and glided over the lake, her wing 
tips m aking ripples in the still water.  
Calen made for her, but Farean reached the warm sand and rode 
the updraft like an arrow shot from a bow. She curved up and behind 
him, tagging his rump with her snout before dropping down and 
landing on the sand without so  much as a cloud. Calen landed next to 
her. " He says I’m a natural ", Farean squealed in my head. " I’ll be flying 
with the year two’s in weeks ". 
125  Ash Rober ts 
 "You however," Lewon said to me, "have a lot to learn. And I 
can’t say that you have much affinity for a blade."  
"Hmph. Don’t forget I’ve never held a sword before today. At the 
castle, the servants even cut my meat. If I’m so bad, you better get to 
work training me."  
"Then follow my lead. We will start with how to hold yourself." 
He stood with his legs spread, faci ng me. I tried to follow his 
example, but he frowned. "No, square your shoulders."  
I twisted my body which elicited a head shake.  
"No, no. Here’s let me show you."  
He closed the gap between us and put his hands on my shoulders, 
pushing them into the positi on he wanted. I felt warm at his touch 
and tried to think of something else before the blush appeared at my 
ears. 
"How long have you been practicing this?" I nodded at the blade 
in my hand.  
"Ever since Authand found me after the Goblins sacked my 
village. That day, I swore I would never be defenseless again."  
It seemed everyone at camp had a story of tragedy dealing with the 
Goblin war. All this time, I’d blamed the dragon that killed my 
grandfather and not the Orc who rode it.  
"And my job is to make sure y ou aren’t defenseless either," Lewon 
said. "So, let’s focus on defensive skills. I will attack, and I want you 
to defend yourself from me." He backed up a few steps and then 
came rushing at me.  
I raised my sword, but he easily slipped past my guard and landed 
the broadside of his weapon on my shoulder.  
"Ouch." I dropped my sword in surprise and rubbed where he’d 
hit me. I could already feel the welt forming under my tunic.  
"Pick it up!" he barked. I bent down, and by the time I was 
standing he was on top  of me. I raised my sword, but he was faster. 
He brought the pommel down on my head gently enough to allay any 
damage but still hard enough to hurt.  
Royal Dragoneer   126 
 He backed off, and I returned to the stance he had demonstrated 
earlier. He moved again. This time I blocke d his blow but fell 
backward from the impact. My head bounced against the hard 
ground and stars flashed before my eyes.  
"Hold!" I cried. I tried to sit up, but red -hot throbbing stopped 
me. 
He was beside me in a flash. "Are you okay?" His hands grabbed 
my shoulders as he pulled me up and inspected my scalp.  
I blinked away the worst of the pain and panted. "I’ll be okay; I 
just need to rest a minute."  
He nodded but said nothing. He sat down beside me and stared at 
me. His gaze unsettled me. Perhaps my fall w as more serious than I 
thought.  
I felt a rush of air and Farean landed beside me, sending soothing 
thoughts to my aching head. The leaves on the ground fluttered in 
the air currents she created. A melon -sized black rock with red 
streaks poked from the grou nd where her talons had disturbed the 
grass. I grabbed the rock and pulled it from the dirt. "What’s this?" I 
held it up, inspecting it. The red glittered in the filtered sunlight 
looking for the all world like blood flowing through its veins.  
Lewon grabbe d it out of my hands.  
"Hey!" I shrieked. I tried to stand to take it back but was 
overcome by dizziness and sat back down.  
He bent and gently placed it on the ground under a bush several 
feet away. He lowered it as gently as an egg before returning his 
attention to me.  
"That is firerock. It is rare in this part of the world, but very 
dangerous. If you had dropped that, it would have killed us all." He 
stood and held out his hand. I grabbed hold of it and he pulled me to 
my feet. The world spun around me and  I wobbled. "We’re done for 
the day," he said. "Farean, get Kalia back to camp, and to a healer. A 
head knock can be serious. I’d escort you, but I need to take that 
chunk of firerock into town so that it can be disposed of properly."  
127  Ash Rober ts 
 He helped me onto Far ean’s back and fastened my buckles, his 
hands grazing my stomach and thighs.  
I sucked my breath, relishing his touch. I thought about reaching 
out and touching him back —the damp hair curled at the back of his 
neck, or the sharp curve of his jawline. But I wasn’t brave enough.  
He finished his work and gave Farean a pat on the rump. "Fly as 
smooth as a red and get her back safely," he told her. She nodded at 
him and jumped into the sky.  

 
 
 
The jolt of Farean laun ching into the sky sent me reeling. My 
hands slipped from her neck ridge, but the harness held. I regained 
my hold and drew myself in close to her body. The ground rushing 
below us made my head hurt even more, so I caused my eyes. The 
day was still early, but I was so tired. Farean knew the way. I could 
just take a nap while we flew.  
"I’m worried  for you. You don’t feel right." Her words pulled me back to 
awareness.  
"What  do you mean?  I’m just tired and my head hurts". I patted her side 
as her powerful shou lders flexed in time to her beating wings.  
"No, something  is wrong.  I should  heal you". No sooner had she finished 
thinking those words than she started descending below the treetops.  
"Silly dragon.  You can’t heal me. Just take me to the healer  for some herb 
heads. " "No, that’s not right." 
"See, even your thoughts  are all wrong. " "And I have something  better than 
herbs.  I have magic. " 
"Since when do you have magic"? "Is this a real conversation  or is it a dream?  
It feels like dream. " 
"Baran  says magic flows through  a dragon  like blood.  We are the channel,  but 
our Dragoneers  are the source.  And you are awake,  but you feel fuzzy. " 
"But I don’t have magic". I protested" . Hardly  anybody  has magic 
anymore. " 
Farean landed on a bed of leaves with hardly a rustle. " Magic  is 
strong  in you. I can feel it. Now,  get off. I can’t do anything  from below you." 
I struggled with the buckles and slid to the ground. As soon as I 
was off, she turned and stood over me. The blur of motion made me 
dizzy, and I collapsed to my knees . 
Royal Dragoneer   130 
 "That’s  a good idea. Lie down,  "she ordered.  
I crumpled the rest of the way in compliance and felt her breath 
on my scalp. I tensed, all my old childhood fears of dragon attacks 
rising to the surface of my thoughts.  
"Oh, don’t be ridiculous.  "Hurt crept into her voice. " I would  never hurt 
you". 
I felt a talon touch against a tender spot on the back of my skull 
and winced, crying out as if she were stabbing into my flesh.  
"This is not good." "A wound  like this killed  Vernis’s  rider"." Her tone 
was now ting ed with fear.  
"Who?" I turned my head, forgetting to communicate mentally.  
"Shush ". "I need to concentrate  and draw out your dormant  magic. " Her hot 
breath blew against my head and I felt the lump tingle. She blew 
again, and the tingling intensified until it burned. I cried out, but 
Farean pressed against me, keeping me immobile.  
A felt her breath a third time. I squirmed but she was much too 
strong for me. Then the burning stopped, replaced by a dull ache 
which also faded after a few minutes. Her weight sh ifted, and her 
breath tickled gently on my neck as she peered closely at the knot.  
"That’s  much better". She lifted herself off me and sat on her 
haunches.  
I reached a hand to the back of my head and the bruise from 
earlier was gone. It was still a little tender, but the swelling had 
subsided.  
"See, magic. " She gave me that odd, slightly menacing look that 
dragons had when they attempted to mimic a smile.  
I sat up, the dizziness gone. "Well, let’s get back. If Lewon sent 
word about my concussion, the entire  camp will be searching for us." 
I leapt onto her back, feeling more energy than I had since being 
exiled from the castle.  
We broke through the treetops just in time to catch Lewon and 
Calen rising up from the camp. They spotted us and circled above 
until we approached for our landing. Lewon was on his feet and at 
my side as I slid from Farean’s back.  
131  Ash Rober ts 
 "You got rid of the firerock already?" I asked him.  
"You’ve been gone over an hour. What happened? Are you okay?"  
"I’m fine. I had some, uh, private business to attend to." The lie 
came surprisingly easily, and I felt a little bad. But I wanted to know 
more about Farean’s magical revelation before I told anyone.  
"Go see the healer." Lewon gently pushed me towards the low 
building where the healer worked. "I wil l take care of your harness 
and Farean."  
I shook my head, thankful it didn’t hurt or make me dizzy. "No, I 
really am fine. The flight back did the trick."  
He looked at me and sighed. "If you say so. But I’ll make sure 
Esgeril checks on you later."  
I ignored his comment while I unbuckled Farean’s harness. If I 
could reveal Farean’s secret to anyone it would be Esgeril. Through 
her family history, she would know if something like this had 
happened before. I turned my attention back to Lewon. "I really a m 
okay, but do what you must."  
He nodded and left without another word.  
I went the opposite direction.  
Florian and her crew sat outside the girl’s barracks as usual. She 
tried to block my path as I approached, but I dug my heel into her 
foot. I wasn’t stro ng enough to hurt her, but it surprised her enough 
to create the opening I needed to push past her into the building.  
Shortly after I got back to my room, Esgeril knocked on the door. 
"How did it go? I want all the juicy details." She smiled and collapsed 
on the straw mattress by my window.  
"Well, I have a lot to learn," I said. "Farean is a natural in the air. 
Good enough that I’m holding her back. But Lewon gave me some 
good bruises today."  
She laughed. "I don’t know why we need to learn how to wield the 
blade. They don’t do any good from dragon -back. I’m glad Baran’s 
red, so I can use the crossbow dad trained me on. Did you see the 
healer? She’ll have an ointment to help with the bruising."  
Royal Dragoneer   132 
 "Actually, I have a question for you. What you know about healing  
magic?"  
"Healing magic?" She shook her head. "Don’t waste your time 
worrying about that. Nobody has any magic worth talking about."  
I frowned. "What about what Baran told Farean? About dragons 
channeling magic and focusing our powers?"  
"I broke my arm the  day after the hatching." She lifted her left arm 
and flexed it, then dropped it back to her side. "The cast came off 
just before we left for here. Maybe Dragoneers heal a few days 
quicker than normal folks. Could be dragon magic, or just that we’re 
mostly  tough people."  
I looked away, wondering what to say. How did you bring up 
magic when someone didn’t believe in it?  
"So, by the look on your face, I’d guess something happened?" she 
said. "Tell me."  
"I hit my head my head pretty hard during training. Hard enough 
to worry Lewon, so he cut our session short. He’s going to ask you to 
keep an eye on me later, just so you know. Anyway, on the way back 
to the healer, Farean got worried. Then she said that thing about 
magic that Baran told her and insisted she cou ld heal me. Started 
spouting nonsense about a dragon king." I turned my head and 
parted my hair. "I couldn’t see what was going on, but it burned and 
then it stopped throbbing and felt better." I turned back to an open -
mouthed Esgeril. "She said I had stro ng magic. But I’ve never 
noticed anything like that before."  
Esgeril sat there gaping at me, at a complete loss for words.  
"Please don’t tell anyone," I begged. "I’m enough of a freak here 
already."  
Her expression softened. "You’re not a freak. You just do n’t know 
anything." She broke into a smile. "At all. About anything. And I’ve 
never heard of dragon magic working like that. But I’ll have a chat 
with Baran and see what he says, about both you and Farean. We 
could even look in the camp archives and see if  they mention 
anything similar. But, yeah, I wouldn’t bring up dragon magic with 
133  Ash Rober ts 
 anyone until we know more or could prove something. Maybe your 
injury wasn’t as bad as you thought it was. You can’t see the back of 
your own head, you know?"  
"I know," I gave  her a friendly shove, and she rolled backward and 
off the bed with wild exaggerated motions, as if I had the strength to 
bowl her over. "See, I know that much," I insisted. "Actually, I know 
plenty. Just not anything useful." I laughed, and she let out on e of her 
signature snorts. "Now help me learn something useful so I can get 
out of my punishment sooner."  

 
 
 
I brought my sword up to block the blow just inches from my 
head. The force knocked me backwards and I dropped to a knee. 
"Hold," I called. I huffed as I supported my weight on the pommel 
of the practice blade. After several months of training now, I was 
getting better, but Lewon still usually bested me.  
"Goblins won’t give you a chance to catch your brea th," he said. 
He held out his hand, and I used it to pull myself up.  
"I know, but you will." I smiled, sheathing my blade. I wandered 
over to a stream near where it fed into the lake and scooped some 
cool water in my hands, washing away the worst of the di rt and sweat 
that caked my face.  
Looking up, a saw a glint of red, under the shade of a nearby tree. 
I’d only seen it once, but Lewon made enough of an impression 
about its danger that I’d always recognize firerock at a glance now.  
"Tell him". Farean’s voice distracted me as it echoed in my head as 
she glided lazily in the air currents above.  
"What does she want you to tell me?" Lewon prodded.  
I turned to see him wading waist high in the lake with a sharpened 
stick aimed at the surface. He kept his eyes glued on the fish darting 
between his legs, not bothering to look up when he asked the 
question.  
"You know, that gets a bit old. What’s the point of having secret 
telepathic conversations with my dragon if Calen just repeats them to 
you," I teased.  
He laug hed. "When dragons are involved, there is no privacy. So, 
you might as well tell me." He moved toward me in the water, his we 
shirt and pants clinging to his body in a very distracting way.  
Royal Dragoneer   136 
 He wasn’t going to give up, it seemed. I wondered if that meant he  
had some inkling already. "Well," I said, hesitant but determined, "I 
noticed that a lot of the male and female Dragoneers have paired off. 
Florian is already spreading rumors about us based on our training 
sessions. I was wondering if there was anyone yo u…" My voice 
trailed off as I got closer to asking the question.  
He smiled. The same sly little grin that he had shown me so many 
times in the past few weeks. And that grin alone fueled my hope. But 
he didn’t say anything. He just stared at me, wading clos er to me on 
the shoreline and waiting for me to go on.  
So, I did. "I’m only asking because. Well, because. I like you. And 
I can’t ignore that anymore. I like you. It scares me. But I need to 
know if you feel the same way." I let out a long unsteady breath . 
There. I’d said it. The flag was in his possession now.  
He walked right up and stood over me —still with that same 
cheeky grin and only the sound of water dripping off of him. His 
spear floated in the lake behind him, forgotten. The seconds ticked 
by as w e stood like that, close but not touching, my head just below 
his chin line so I could see the pulse jumping in his neck. It seemed 
to be jumping very quickly. I knew mine sure was. I was hoping he 
would kiss me, but instead he raised his hand, brushing my  sweaty 
hair from my cheek.  
"Training’s not the place for this," he said gently "It wouldn’t be 
right. I’m your teacher."  
I felt like the wind had been knocked out of me. I blinked, trying 
to understand.  
"That’s enough of a break. Back to training." He hel d out his 
hand. I felt like collapsing to the ground, screaming in frustration, 
and going off to hide all at once. Instead, I assumed the stance he 
had shown me. He attacked and I let my frustration fueled my 
moves. I deflected a series of thrusts, holding  my own for much 
longer than I had previously.  
Finally, he passed my guard and knocked me to the ground. I 
rolled and used the momentum to lift me back to my feet. This time I 
137  Ash Rober ts 
 went on the attack. Lewon blinked but raised his sword to block. He 
let me try s everal more times, but I never came close to landing a 
blow.  
He switched back to offense, landing several more touches while I 
managed to stay on my feet. He feinted, and while I was distracted by 
his sword he swept my knees with his leg. I landed on my ba ck and 
he pressed the blunted point of his weapon against my chest.  
He withdrew the point, sheathing the sword and extending his 
hand instead. Kalia," he said my name softly, like a caress. "Get 
cleaned up and meet me at the stables an hour before the dinn er 
bell."  
I gulped twice before I was able to ask hopefully, "You mean for a 
date?"  
Again, he only responded with a smile. That grin made my heart 
flutter and infuriated me at the same time. Why couldn’t he just give 
me a straight answer for once?  
He walke d past me, water cascading off his body, and went to put 
our practice equipment away.  
I clambered onto Farean’s back, but then remember something. 
"I’m still under my punishment," I reminded him. "I can’t leave the 
camp."  
He dismissed my concern with a wav e of his hand, not bothering 
to look up from his work. "I already cleared it with Authand. Don’t 
worry."  
He had cleared it with Authand? That meant he’d planned 
something for us before I’d even broached the question. My heart 
leapt just as Farean leapt int o the sky.  
"I told you to ask him, "she said. " You humans  make mating  way too 
complicated. " 
She wasn’t wrong.  
Back at the stables, I made record time removing her saddle, 
giving it only the most cursory of cleanings before putting it away. I 
found Esgeril in the central Pavilion. "Come on, I need your help." I 
Royal Dragoneer   138 
 grabbed her arm without stopping and pulled her to her feet, nearly 
over balancing her.  
"What’s the matter?"  
"Nothing, for a change.  But I do have a date." I doubled our pace 
until we were just short of a run. "And I have no clue what to wear. 
Help me go through my trunk from home. I’m finally going to have a 
chance to wear a dress again."  
I barely noticed Esgeril shut the door behind her when we entered 
my room. I ran straight for the trunk, tossing the lid open with 
enough force to rock it. I started pulling garments out.  
"Do you think I should go with the blue dress to match Farean’s 
scales or the green to match Calen?" I held the tw o up, so she could 
compare.  
"Neither." Esgeril shook her head. "Goblins have been spotted in 
the woods, and Colonel Authand has grounded everyone. No one is 
allowed leave camp."  
"No, that can’t be right. Lewon said he’d cleared it."  
"I don’t know what " Lewon" told you, but the Colonel was 
adamant. You can’t leave."  
I crossed the small room with two quick steps and stood over her. 
"Are you making this up? Why are you ruining this? Are you 
jealous?" I demanded.  
"Jealous?" She scoffed, placing her hands on her  hips and staring 
defiantly at me. "Why would I make up a lie? It’s easy enough to 
check. Just go ask the Colonel."  
"I don’t have time for that. And you know the Colonel hates me. 
He’d probably ground me no matter what, just on principle." I 
turned away fr om her, almost in tears. "Why can’t you just be happy 
for me? Finally, somebody accepts me for who I really am, and I get 
to do something for myself. Since the hatching, every decision has 
been about Farean."  
"Oh, poor you," she said sarcastically. "Poor p retty princess born 
with a golden spoon in her mouth. Now you finally find out what it 
means to live for someone other than yourself, and you run into the 
139  Ash Rober ts 
 arms of the first boy who smirks at you. Your independence is just 
something you pretend to have unti l someone comes along to take 
care of you."  
That struck a little too close to home. I narrowed my eyes as I 
exhaled out my nose. I leaned forward, close enough that my breath 
toyed with a stray lock that lay across her forehead. "Get out of my 
room," I his sed. 
Esgeril held her ground as we glared at each other. She 
sidestepped around me and grabbed the door knob. Opening it, she 
spoke in a low voice. "Lewon is up to something. You can’t trust 
him. Don’t say that I didn’t warn you." Then she was gone, leavin g 
me to my own thoughts.  
"Kalia"," what’s  wrong?  "Farean called from the stables, sensing my 
distress.  
"Be quiet. I’m fine." I waved her off even though she couldn’t see 
me. 
I looked down at the two dresses and grabbed the green one. Etlin 
had always said green suited me.  
Thinking of him didn’t bring the twinge of pain it once had. In 
fact, it had been weeks since he’d even crossed my mind. I’d been so 
devastated when he left me. Was Esgeril right about my 
independence? Was it just something I put on like a  pretty dress to 
attract someone new to take care of me? No, that wasn’t fair. I had 
grown leaps and bounds since I’d come to camp. I did everything for 
myself and I was a good Dragoneer. Being independent didn’t mean 
you couldn’t have friends or boyfriend s. You could still want and 
have those relationships. You just didn’t need them desperately or 
lose yourself in them. But would I lose myself in Lewon? Well, there 
was only one way to find out.  

 
 
 
I brushed my hands through my pony tail as I walked to the 
stables. I had hoped Esgeril would braid my hair for me, but I would 
have to make do with what I had done looking into the barrack’s 
washroom mirror. If I missed even one strand, it whipped painfully 
in my face  when I flew. It was probably why many of the female 
riders cut their hair short like boys.  
At this late hour, the stables were deserted. The other Dragoneers 
had finished their classes for the day and mealtime for the dragons 
started earlier than ours. A few slumbered in their berths. Farean 
shouldn’t be eating; she knew we would be flying tonight, but she 
was absent. I opened my storage locker retrieve Farean’s harness 
from its storage trunk before calling her back.  
"You won’t need that." I jumped at the sound of Lewon’s voice. I 
turned around, my heart pounding in my chest.  
"I thought we were flying somewhere," I said, trying not to show 
my disappointment. Was this all just a set -up again?  
He saw my discomfort and shook his head. "Farean gets a break 
tonight. We’ll ride together on Calen. You’ll just have to hook onto 
me." He gave a little half turn and pointed to a D -ring at the small of 
his back that I hadn’t noticed before.  
I followed him to Calen’s stable and stood back as Lewon 
harnessed his dragon and climbed onto its back. Once secure, he held 
out his hand to me.  
I hesitated. I’d been training for three months, but I’d never 
touched a dragon who wasn’t Farean, let alone ridden one.  
Lewon shook his arm, breaking me from my thoughts.  
Royal Dragoneer   142 
 I grabbed his ha nd and climbed on. The buckles snapped into 
place easily, pulling me very snuggly into Lewon’s back. Calen took 
two steps, and we were airborne.  
One of the first things I noticed was that we were not flying in the 
direction of the village where Esgeril’s a unt owned her shop. I 
considered bringing that up, but it was hard to talk on a dragon. And 
I didn’t want him to think I didn’t trust him.  
The wind buffeted me, pushing me back and forth. A gust 
knocked my grip loose and my buckles tensed against Lewon’s b ack 
pulling him askew as well.  
I grabbed at his shoulders, making it more difficult for him to hold 
onto the harness.  
He grasped Calen’s neck ridge and pulled himself forward in the 
saddle.  
I pried my fingers around the saddle’s edge and pulled myself back  
as well.  
"Hold on," he shouted over his shoulder.  
"I’m trying."  
"No." The wind made it difficult to hear, but there was no 
mistaking his growl of frustration. "Hold on to " me". I don’t want 
you pulling me back again."  
"Oh." The sound was lost in the wind as I tried to decide where to 
put my hands.  
Still holding on to the dragon’s neck with one arm, Lewon reached 
around and yanked my hands to his chest. I took the hint and 
wrapped my arms around his body. Calen rode an air current higher, 
and I instinctivel y pressed myself closer to Lewon. He was so warm. 
And I could feel the beating of his heart, his chest expanding and 
contracting with each breath. The heat he radiated was helping 
protect me against the chill of the air flowing past. This was much 
more int imate than I’d ever been with Etlin. I felt flush and was 
grateful for the fact that Lewon couldn’t see my reaction, or my face.  
I recalled my conversation with Esgeril on how casually 
Dragoneers viewed romantic relationships, especially those from the 
143  Ash Rober ts 
 West like where Lewon was from. That was enough to jolt me back 
to reality, and I pulled away from him a little but kept my arms 
around his chest with the lightest of grips.  
We rode in silence until white smoke appeared on the horizon. We 
made our way towards  it, and an assortment of stone and wood 
buildings came into view surrounded by a crude stone wall. Judging 
by its size and location, I guessed this was Suzu, Darneta’s second 
largest city.  
We had traveled there once when I was a child. My father took a 
comprehensive yearlong tour of the kingdom every five years of his 
rule. It helped the outlands feel connected to their king and showed 
that he cared about their lives.  
The dragon pavilion here was not so grand as it had been at 
Esgeril’s village. Further fr om the training grounds, I guessed it didn’t 
receive as much dragon traffic as the smaller town. We landed and 
deposited our harnesses in a locker before I excused myself in search 
of a mirror to fix my hair before anyone noticed how messy it had 
come.  
When I returned from the pavilion’s washroom, I found Lewon 
leaning against a pillar at the exit. He saw me and straightened, 
holding his left arm out. I took it awkwardly. Esgeril had taken to my 
righthandedness gracefully and stood on the other side to 
accommodate me. Why was I comparing Lewon to her? I took 
Lewon’s arm with more vigor than I intended, forcing the strange 
thoughts away. He couldn’t help it if he was used to most people 
being left -handed.  
Lewon led me to a dim public house with sparse candles  providing 
the only illumination. Despite the crude outward appearance, the 
owner was well dressed and led us to our table without a word. I 
perused the menu, which further showed the establishment to be 
more upscale than the average tavern, and ordered.  
Lewon spoke after the owner was out of earshot. "I know this 
isn’t as posh as the capital or the castle, but I figured you would enjoy 
a change from the camp’s cafeteria."  
Royal Dragoneer   144 
 Without the stress of training or traveling across Goblin -infested 
roads, we fell int o an easy conversation. I thought I had gotten to 
know Lewon pretty well, but I hadn’t even scratched the surface. I 
barely noticed my meal, tasty but forgettable, as the conversation 
progressed. I wished we could stay there forever.  
But then two pale -skinned men sidled up to our booth and slid 
onto the benches next to us. I was so startled, I didn’t know what to 
say. The tavern wasn’t full. There were other places to sit. And I 
hadn’t seen many, but their black hair and red eyes told me they were 
Nightbloo ds. The one next to me opened his mouth to speak, 
providing further proof with a flash of his teeth, sharpened to fanged 
points.  
"Where’s our money, Lewon?" he said, staring at me hungrily. 
"Roland doesn’t like it when his runecube players don’t pay."  
"Runecubes?" I squeaked. "Those are illegal."  
The Nightblood elbowed me. "Still, you’re boyfriend here has a 
weakness for them. He owes the boss a stoneweight." He grinned, 
showing his fangs again.  
It would take a Dragoneer four years to earn that much.  
"Lewon, how could you lose so much money?" I asked.  
"Because Roland cheats." He banged his fist on the table.  
With a Nightblood’s fabled reflexes, the one next to me grabbed 
Lewon’s hand. "Careful, boy. Roland has been patient with you till 
now, but he won’t  wait any longer. Don’t make this harder on 
yourself."  
"I have his money, Bior," Lewon said.  
"You do?" The Nightblood and I said in unison.  
"Yes. Well, the next best thing." He pointed at me. "Boys, meet 
Princess Kalia of Darneta."  
Both the Nightbloods sta red at me as I stared at Lewon. This 
couldn’t be happening. He wouldn’t do this. Who would do this?  
"I don’t have any more money than he does," I told the 
Nightblood called Bior.  
145  Ash Rober ts 
 In response, he reached out and grabbed my wrist, holding it 
tightly enough t o elicit a yelp. "No, but your father does."  
Realization of what he planned hit me, and I fought against his 
grasp.  
"Are we good, Bior?" Lewon asked, without looking at me.  
Bior stood, pulling me with him. "Yes, this will be sufficient to 
relieve your debt s. Should Roland expect you at the runecube table 
next weekend?"  
Lewon pushed his way past Bior’s companion. "Of course. It will 
be nice to see Roland owing me money for a change."  
"Lewon," I hissed. "Don’t do this."  
"It’s not personal, Kalia." Lewon said,  though I noticed wouldn’t 
look me in the eye. "It’s just business."  
And then he turned and left the restaurant without looking back.  

 
 
 
The unnamed Nightblood took my left arm and the two leeches 
dragged me towa rds the exit. I tried to search for the proprietor, but 
he was conspicuously absent.  
Outside, a light mist coated everything, and a wolf cowered under 
a nearby tree, wrapped in silver chains. It wasn’t just any wolf, 
judging by the size. A wolf that big ha d to be a wolf -shifter.  
The Nightbloods led me to the animal and pushed me over its 
back. They untied the end of the chain from the tree and wrapped it 
around my wrists. Bior prodded the poor creature and it walked into 
the woods on some unseen trail, the Nightbloods flanking us on each 
side. 
With each step the wolf -shifter took, the chains tugged at my 
wrists. Within a mile, the skin had been rubbed raw and my blood 
matted the animal’s fur. But I barely felt the pain. It was nothing 
compared to how badly m y heart hurt. I had trusted Lewon. I had 
actually thought he liked me. How could I have been such a fool 
again? First there had been Etlin, who had at least dumped me, 
instead of selling me to pay his debts. And now this. Did I have 
absolutely no sense of who people really were? Was I that blind and 
naive? Maybe Esgeril was right, and I was just a person who wanted 
someone else to take care of me. Well, there was no one to take care 
of me now. I was going to have to get out of this on my own. Which 
wouldn’t  be easy chained to the back of a wolf with only a view of 
the ground.  
"You should let me go know." I said with more bravery than I felt, 
craning my neck to see Bior. "It will go poorly for you otherwise,"  
Royal Dragoneer   148 
 "Oh, yeah?  Why is that?" Bior laughed. "Your father won’t risk 
you getting hurt. He will pay the ransom."  
I wasn’t as sure of that as he was, but admitting it wouldn’t help 
my cause. I knew Farean could hear me from a distance. When the 
Goblins had ambushed Lewon an d I on the road back to the swine 
farm, she’d flown to my rescue. But that had only been a few miles 
distance. Suzu was at least twenty miles from camp. Maybe more. 
"Farean,  I need you." I called earnestly in my head. " I’m in trouble.  Come  
help me. "Farean  was the one creature in this world I knew I could 
trust without fail. Not because I needed her, but because we needed 
each other. We had that unbreakable bond the Dragoneeers were 
always going on about.  
"You do know I’m a Dragoneer, right?" I told my capt ors. "My 
dragon will find me."  
"Oh, good," Bior said cheerily. The other one wasn’t much of a 
talker, it seemed. "Roland always has use for more dragons."  
"She wouldn’t follow him, because I won’t."  
"Roland will have no reason to keep you after the ransom is paid. 
He’ll find your dragon a rider more amenable to our cause."  
"That’s not possible," I reminded him "A dragon is bonded for 
life." 
"Is that what the Dragoneers told you?" He gave a full belly laugh. 
"You’re more naive than I thought, if you believe that."  
"What are you talking about?" I cried. "Can the dragon bond be 
broken?"  
"There is a witch, Ascatie," Bior said. "She lives in the North 
where wild dragons still roam. It is said she can perform the rite. This 
is what will be done to you and your dra gon if you call it here to 
rescue you."  
"No," I whispered. Meanwhile I was frantically telling Farean in 
my head. " Farean, " "listen to me." "Don’t  come. It isn’t safe for you. Stay 
away.  That’s  an order. " 
149  Ash Rober ts 
 I felt —something —this time. A sensation just on th e cusp of my 
awareness. Anger. No, fear and rage. Farean was getting closer. She 
was coming after me.  
In a panic, I squirmed against my bonds, grinding my injured 
wrists into the wolf’s shoulder.  
It growled, low in its throat, the vibration breaking the st ill of the 
night.  
"Quiet, Meril," Bior hissed at it. "Roland won’t release your pups 
if you get us caught."  
Meril whimpered and then became quiet. She picked up her pace, 
no doubt eager to be relieved of her load and returned to her family. 
The two Nightbl oods kept up easily, appearing for all the world as if 
the wolf’s trot was slowing them down. Maybe my parents would pay 
the ransom that Roland would demand. I had no idea.  
But I had to keep Farean away. Or at least warn her what to 
expect and not to come flying into a trap. " Farean ", I called again. 
"They know you’re  coming.  It’s a trap." "Be on guard.  Think  before you act." I 
kept trying to contact her as we crossed mile after nameless mile.  
The Nightbloods seemed agitated by our slow progress and 
conferr ed between themselves as the moons rose in the sky. "This is 
taking too long," Bior told his companion. "The wolf is weary, and 
the girl is heavy. I can move faster on my own and will go on ahead 
to tell Roland we have a prize." He tugged at the chain for good 
measure, and Meril and I both cried out in pain. Then, faster than I 
could blink, he disappeared into the night. The other Nightblood led 
the way in silence. He had not said a word since he’d sat down next 
to that traitorous Lewon, hours before.  
The d ragon moon set and then Kingsmoon, leaving just the red 
blood moon illuminating the path. I wasn’t superstitious but, given 
how the night was going, I shivered at the ill omen a lone blood 
moon conveyed.  
Despite the pain in my arms and back, my exhaustion eventually 
overtook me. I woke to see dawn peaking over the horizon as my 
Nightblood captor unwound my chains and pulled me from the back 
Royal Dragoneer   150 
 of Meril. A small stone home sat alone in the woods, the dawn -facing 
windows shut tight. No smoke rose from the chimne y. At first, I 
thought that meant the building was unoccupied, but then I realized 
that Nightbloods needed no fire for warmth or food.  
Bior opened the door at our arrival and waved us in, the silent 
Nightblood dragging me by my arm and Meril by her chains.  The 
door shut loudly behind us, and I turned to see him turn several large 
bolts as big around as my arm. A third Nightblood, portly by their 
standards, sat at an oak table counting stacks of money.  
"Did my father pay the ransom?" I asked hopefully. Meanw hile, 
Bior stuffed Meril into a cage that looked much too small for her. 
The other one pushed me roughly into a chair and wrapped me in a 
rope almost faster than I could see.  
"Why, my dear," replied the Nightblood who must be Roland, 
"this is just what my runecube clubs brought in last night. It’s not a 
tenth of what I will demand from your father." The Nightblood 
Change made it difficult to tell, but his head seemed not quite right 
and his skin had a greyer tone than the alabaster of his companions.  
"You’r e a Goblin," I gasped in realization.  
"I’m a Nightblood!" He brought his fist down on the table, 
cracking the wood in half. The gold and silver coins scattered across 
the room. A silver piece rolled into Meril’s cage. She jumped when it 
touched her, sending her into the bars, cowering and cringing away 
from it.  
"Never mention what a Nightblood was before," Roland said, 
coming around the table and grabbing me by the chin with his cold 
hand. "It is the rudest possible insult to our kind, and I’ve killed  
others for much less." He let go of my chin but kept his face close to 
mine. "Just be thankful you are worth so much, or you’d already be 
dead." His breath smelled of blood, warm and metallic. "Bior, pick 
up this mess." He waved his hand at the money on t he floor. "The 
sun is up, and I must go and rest."  
He left through a door in the back, though I got no details of the 
room or space beyond. It was too dark.  
151  Ash Rober ts 
 Bior and the other Nightblood, whose name I still didn’t know, 
stooped down and started picking up the money. The nameless one 
reached for the coin in Meril’s cage, and she snapped at him, earning 
her cage an angry kick. The Nightblood’s strength sent it rolling. She 
shrieked as she tumbled with it, and then lay there whimpering, but 
not moving, when it  stopped.  
These Nightbloods had no mercy. What would they do to Farean 
if she came? What would they do to me if she didn’t?  
Bior and his companion finished putting the scattered money back 
on the table. When they were done, the silent one cocked his head 
and went to the small window. He peered through it and grabbed a 
crossbow and some bolts hanging from a hook on the wall. He went 
back to the window, crouching down.  
Bior followed suit, grabbing another weapon from the wall. He 
took a position at a slit on the other side of the door.  
"Who is out there?" I asked them. Was it my father’s men or my 
dragon? " Farean,  if you’re  here, it’s a trap. The house is full of Nightbloods,  
and they have crossbows.  Be careful. " 
"Be quiet!" Bior barked.  
I obeyed, straining to  sense Farean’s presence or her thoughts, but 
I got nothing.  
Bior’s companion took aim with his bow and fired.  
"Careful," Bior warned him. "We don’t know how many there. 
Conserve our ammunition. Wait until you can see them clearly."  
"I thaw moothement," th e other Nightblood lisped.  
That was why he hadn’t spoken. I had heard of such things before, 
stories the maids told each other at night. In the human kingdom of 
Facal, they cut out the tongues of their remedial criminals, those who 
had committed an offense  not quite worthy of the death penalty. And 
when Nightbloods Changed, their bodies gained the ability to 
regenerate, even parts that had previously been removed. It was said 
the blood they drank did that. But that regeneration could take some 
time. This Ni ghtblood must be so young his tongue hadn’t yet 
completely grown back.  
Royal Dragoneer   152 
 Bior focused on the slit before him, attempting to find what had 
roused the other’s attention. I couldn’t see what they were seeing, but 
they both suddenly started shooting frantically,  barely taking the time 
to aim before firing.  
I heard a sound, maybe a growl or the beating of wings.  
Bior dropped his crossbow and retreated to the room where 
Roland had retired.  
The other Nightblood kept firing.  
Mortar dust and crumbled stone started rai ning down from the 
ceiling, and I ducked under Roland’s money table for protection.  
A hole opened up in the roof as more stone and debris came 
crashing down.  
Farean snaked her head through the hole and grabbed the lisping 
Nightblood in her jaws, shaking hi m back and forth before releasing 
him into the far wall.  
He slumped to the floor and didn’t move.  
"I’m here", Farean said. " And that man tasted  nasty. " 
 
 
 
"Farean!"  I cried, scanning as much of her as I could through the 
hole in the ceiling. I didn’t see any bolts sticking out of her hide. She 
was safe. I was safe.  
"Of course,  you’re  safe." Farean said, so confident in herself" . I would  
never let anyone  harm you. Oh, and I brought  the boss man." 
Colonel Authand entered the home through the door, rather than 
the dragon -sized hole in roof. He looked me over with a faint nod of 
his head, assessing the battle damage nonchalantly as if he’d done it a 
thousand times before.  Which he probably had.  
He seemed content that I was safe and rushed for the rear door, 
his short sword drawn in front of him. He threw it open, revealing a 
dark room with an open door on its back wall, open to the dim 
woods beyond. He searched the now emp ty room and came back 
into the main one just as two other Dragoneers came in the front 
door.  
"The outside is secure, sir," one of them said. Three vertical bars 
under his Dragon pin indicated he was in his third and final year of 
training. His sandy brown hair was trimmed close to his head, and his 
demeanor seemed closer to that of my father’s guards than what I 
was used to in the Dragoneers.  
"Well, they escaped out the back," Authand said. "Search again; 
they must have a secret passage somewhere. Farean, h ave a fly 
around and see if you notice anything from the air."  
"Yes, sir. "My dragon said like an obedient soldier, as she flapped 
her wings and took off from the roof, sending dust billowing down 
into the room.  
Royal Dragoneer   154 
 When the air had cleared, Authand sheathed his sword and pulled 
a small dagger from his belt. The other two Dragoneers back outside 
and headed in different directions. Authand cut through the ropes 
that bound me. I rubbed my bleeding wrists, wincing at the raw flesh.  
I knelt next to Meril’s cage. " We need to let her out. She is a 
prisoner here too."  
"She’s a Wolf -shifter, girl. And a badly treated one at that. Be 
careful she doesn’t bite the hand that feeds her."  
I ignored his warning, and opened the door to her cage, but Meril 
cringed at the back. I crawled halfway in. "It’s okay, we’re going to 
help you." I took another crawling move forward, and she snapped at 
me. I jumped back.  
"If you bite her, I’ll bite you, "I heard Farean say. But she wasn’t 
talking to me. She was talking to Meril, who cocked  her head and 
looked up through the hole in the roof, trembling.  
I use the distraction to lunge forward and pull the chain off her. 
Her demeanor changed immediately. She took a step towards me, but 
it did not seem threatening. I backed out of the cage, and  she 
followed me into the room. Once clear, she began to shift.  
Her snout pulled into her face and her legs straightened and 
lengthened. Fur dissolved into golden brown skin. Within moments, 
she returned to the form of a woman around thirty and attempted t o 
cover her nakedness with her arms.  
Authand went into the back room and returned with breaches and 
a coat that were both several sizes too large for her. He tossed them 
to her and turned away. She slipped into the pants, but they were so 
large that she co uld not keep them up. I gave her a length of the rope 
that had bound me, and she cinched it around her waist, then slid on 
the coat.  
She looked lost in it, but she tapped on the Colonel’s shoulder. 
"Thank you," she said when he turned. She eyed the corpse of the 
lisping Nightblood lying against the wall and turned her attention to 
me. "And thank you. They’ve kept me in wolf form for months, 
155  Ash Rober ts 
 doing their bidding. But I must find them. They still have my pups 
hidden somewhere. I have to find them."  
Authand nod ded. "The other two Dragoneers will stay behind and 
help you."  
She shook her head. "I appreciate the offer, but I can cover more 
ground on my own. And the Nightbloods will stay hidden as long as 
they can see or smell dragons."  
"Well, if there is anything w e can do," Authand said, "you can find 
us at Tulta to the East."  
"I will remember both of you," she said, bowing and turning 
toward the door, her nose sniffing the air. And then she was gone, 
springing into the woods like she was still in wolf form.  
"I didn’t find the other stinky  men", Farean said, sticking her huge head 
in the doorway.  
"It’s okay," I told her. " You saved my life today.  I’m so proud  of you." 
"And she should have never had to," Authand said, turning to me 
angrily. "What were you thinking, l eaving camp again without 
permission while you were still under punishment from the last time. 
Get on your dragon right now, a dragon you most certainly don’t 
deserve, and go straight back to camp, or I’ll sever the two of you 
myself."  
So, it could be done. Not that I ever wanted it to be. But why had 
everyone lied to me about everything?  
"What are you waiting for?" Authand barked.  
"I don’t have her harness," I sputtered.  
He marched outside, and I followed. He reached into a bag 
strapped to his dragon K orth’s back and retrieved Farean’s harness. 
"Lewon could not find your leathers," he said, handing it to me.  
"Lewon?" I asked, my voice rising. "Lewon knows exactly where 
my leathers are. They’re with his at the Pavilion in Suzu. Right where 
he left me." M y fists clenched, and Farean butted me with her snout, 
letting out a low growl.  
"Don’t try to blame this on him. He’s been at the camp since you 
disappeared," Authand said, reaching into a pouch on Korth’s side 
Royal Dragoneer   156 
 and pulling out a pair of leathers I recogniz ed as Esgeril’s. They 
wouldn’t fit, but they’d be close enough to get me home.  
I put them on, Farean fawning over me and making it harder. Her 
thoughts were an incoherent jumble. Most strongly, she seemed 
happy that I was safe, angry that I’d been captured , and sad that I’d 
abandoned her. This last one shocked me. " I didn’t  abandon  you. "I 
assured her" . I thought  I was going on a date. But it was a trap. Lewon  lied 
and turned  me over to the stinky  men. And now he’s back at camp pretending  he 
had nothing  to do with it." 
"Bad Lewon,  "she said. " I warned  you he doesn’t  smell right." 
"I know.  I should  have listened  to you. I’m sorry. "I stroked her snout 
with one hand, using her for balance as I pulled the leggings on, 
awkwardly, over my dress, then attached mys elf to the harness. If it 
was my word against Lewon’s concerning what had happened, who 
would people believe? It looked like Authand already believed 
Lewon. That wasn’t a good sign.  
Even now, Authand was standing next to Korth, his arms crossed 
and his foo t tapping impatiently. "You will follow me back," he said. 
"If you deviate from our flight path at all, Korth will force you to the 
ground and you will walk back to the camp. Is that clear?"  
I nodded and gulped.  
He mounted Korth, and I mounted Farean, hook ing in and 
following them into the sky. There was no conversation on the flight 
back.  
The sun reached its zenith as we landed. My stomach gurgled as 
the sounds and smells of the noon meal wafted from the mess hall. I 
hadn’t eaten for a long time and looked  longingly in that direction; 
but Authand pointed at me with his hook and said, "My office. 
Now."  
I made my best time ever removing Farean’s harness and trotted 
after him. Walking was awkward with my gown bunched up under 
the leggings. Every time I fell be hind, he stopped and glared until I 
caught up. At his office, the aide held the door open. As soon as I 
passed through, he left, closing the door behind us.  
157  Ash Rober ts 
 I’d been warned to avoid Authand’s wrath, but I seemed incapable 
of doing so. In fact, I appeared t o be a wrath -magnet. The Colonel 
waited until I entered his office and then slammed the door with 
enough force to shake the room.  
"What were you thinking?" He thundered, pacing the room in 
front of me. "I’ve seen a lot of new Dragoneers make very stupid an d 
dangerous mistakes, but this has got to take the cake. What did you 
do to attract the attention of someone as dangerous as Roland? 
You’re not playing runecubes, are you?"  
"No," I blurted. Without meaning to, I spread my arms wide, 
nearly sending my hand into his chest. "It was Lewon. He tricked 
me." 
"He tricked you into running off by yourself?"  
"He took me to Suzu for dinner. He said we had your 
permission."  
"Do you think I’m stupid?" That terrible claw thunked into the 
desk as he passed it. "Nobody had permission to leave until we were 
forced to go off on a wild dragon -chase looking for you. Lewon led 
the search until we found Farean flying by herself. Do you have any 
idea how dangerous these woods are for a lost young dragon right 
now?"  
"But—I—" I wante d to protest that Lewon had lied to him —that 
he’d sold me off without a thought for my well -being. But the words 
just wouldn’t come. I’d struggled all night with the fact that I’d 
poured my heart out to Lewon, and he used that very fact in a plan to 
barter  me for his illegal debts. Then he’d pretended to look for me —
to be the caring hero who’d lost the girl he was falling for. That was a 
level of deviousness that both scared and startled me. Lewon would 
not go down without a fight. If I accused him, I might  very well lose 
that battle. Badly. I was not anyone’s favorite at training camp, and 
he clearly was. Obviously, I would have to play this differently, like 
one of my father’s diplomatic negotiations. I was the little kingdom 
with no army. That meant I had  to bide my time and find something 
to bargain with.  
Royal Dragoneer   158 
 So, I hung my head as Authand continued his tirade, but I was no 
longer listening. I was pondering a plan —a way to get my revenge on 
Lewon that he would never see coming. I would show Authand, and 
Floria n, and Esgeril, and all the other Dragoneers what I was really 
made of. I was tired of having one foot in princess world, and one in 
Dragoneer world. If I wanted this life, I was going to have to grab it 
for myself. No one was going to hand it to me.  
"This  is your last chance, Kalia." Authand said, winding down. "If 
you’re caught leaving this camp again without permission, it will be 
the Dragon Caves for you."  
I gulped. The threat had more weight now. I’d only known it was 
a prison before. But from my class es I’d learned the guards were only 
there to prevent the criminals from escaping. There were no guards 
or rules inside the Caves.  
"You should also be aware that Roland never releases his 
hostages," Authand added. "He collects the ransom and kills them. 
And us rescuing you is going to be very bad for his reputation. His 
spies will be on the lookout for you. If you’re ever allowed to l eave 
camp grounds again, which I highly doubt, your life will be in 
constant danger. You will never be safe again because of your 
foolishness last night. Now, leave my sight."  
I didn’t make him repeat himself. The anteroom was still empty of 
the Colonel’s aide and I let myself out. I made my way towards the 
cafeteria. Service would have ended by now, but there might still be 
some food out.  
As I walked down the path, I saw Lewon in the distance, standing 
outside with Florian and her usual crew, waiting for m e, their eyes 
full of hate and malic e. 
 
 
 
I stopped in my tracks, evaluating the situation.  
If I turned and ran, they’d come after my like Nightbloods after a 
bleeding man.  
If I went forward, I’d have to say or do something to get past 
them.  
Either option was bad, but I stepped forward, facing them head -
on. 
I saw the surprise in their eyes when I kept coming. Good. Let 
them be the ones surprised for a change.  
As I got close to the group, they parted, glaring a t me. Lewon was 
there, right on the path. I had to brush his arm to get past and as I 
did I said, "Can’t get rid of me that easily."  
He took a step back, bumping into Florian behind him. I could see 
it in his eyes. He’d never expected me to make it back al ive. And on 
the off chance I did, he’d counted on me crying and accusing him. If 
I’d made a fool of myself, no one would have believed a word I said, 
and he’d have looked that much better for it.  
"And Roland still wants his debt paid," I whispered so no on e else 
could hear. "He’ll be coming for you." I had no idea if that were true, 
but I hoped it was.  
"What’s all the whispering about?" Someone near the rear of the 
pack demanded. "We all want to know what you did this time, 
Princess." He wasn’t using my tit le to be polite.  
"I’ll tell you what she did," Lewon said, smirking at me. "During 
our sword practice, she told me she loved me. Completely out of the 
Royal Dragoneer   160 
 blue. Like I would have anything to do with a court leech who’s lived 
her entire life off of the sweat of  others. Begged me to run away with 
her. And when I rejected her she ran off by herself, crying like a 
baby, and the Colonel had to go chasing after her."  
The others laughed, and Lewon grinned a sick twisted smile.  
"It’s true," I said, smiling back. "I tho ught I loved him, but then I 
realized how small his dragon is. And you know what they say about 
a man’s dragon matching the size of his…"  
Several people laughed despite themselves, and Lewon whirled 
toward them, glaring.  
Meanwhile, I slipped past and into the cafeteria, but I’d lost my 
appetite.  
I waited a few minutes, watching the crowd outside the door 
disperse, then made my way to the barracks as the sky darkened and 
thunder rolled in the distance. Maybe Lewon would get stuck by 
lightning. " Hey, a girl could hope." 
As I walked down the hall toward my room, I saw Esgeril coming 
out of hers. "Esgeril, I —" 
"I told you not to go." Anger rippled through her body, causing 
her to shake. "I warned you and look what happened."  
"Hey." In the past twenty -four hours,  I had been tricked, sold, 
bound, rescued, scolded, threatened, and verbally attacked. I refused 
to be pushed around any further. "You know what? I thought you 
were my friend. But you’re just like everyone else here." I stepped 
around her and stomped to my  room, slamming the door behind me.  
 
 
 
For weeks after the Lewon incident, I kept my head down and did 
my work. I attended all my classes, accepted my accumulated 
punishments, followed every rule, and tried as hard as I could to stay 
out of Authand’s office. That didn’t mean anyone liked me for it. 
They didn’t. If anything, it made Lewon, Florian, and their gang more 
vicious. They wanted me to mess up. They always had. Even Esgeril 
stayed clear of me, and I d idn’t blame her. Association with me 
would have just put her in the line of fire.  
The only friend I had left was Farean. Stretching the limits of our 
bond had brought us closer together. I trusted her in ways I hadn’t 
realized were possible. She no longer had to seek out my touch. I 
freely gave it. I might never forgive the Orcs or the dragon that killed 
my grandfather. But I no longer blamed Farean for an event that 
happened before she hatched.  
I was determined to keep my nose clean and become the best 
damn Dragoneer anyone had ever seen. I'd qualify for the Dragon 
Run and earn the respect I was due that way.  
The Dragon Moon had eclipsed the Kingsmoon once more. My 
room in the girls' barracks was positioned so they both shone in my 
window. On those nights, I couldn't get any sleep due to their glare. 
It was hard to believe I’d been training for half a year, but the 
monotony was getting to me, and I felt so restless. Technically, going 
for a walk after curfew was against the rules. But I yearned for time 
to m yself. So, I waited a few hours for the rest of the camp to settle 
into slumber and slipped my boots onto my feet.  
Royal Dragoneer   162 
 Glancing out the door, the coast was clear, and I tiptoed down the 
hall. I continued to the stairwell. Two steps down, I heard a door 
open.  
"Who’s there?" Florian’s groggy voice called out. I didn’t wait for 
her discover me. I took the stairs three at a time down to the ground 
floor and slipped quietly out the door. I dove into a shrub and lay on 
the damp earth with juniper scratching at my nec k. 
I waited there, catching my breath, but no one came after me. 
Florian must have just gone back to bed, thankfully.  
A candle illuminated the heads of Florian and a third year who 
proctored our hall. "I heard somebody in the stairs. They must be out 
here, " Florian explained. "I bet it was that ‘I’m better than everyone’ 
princess."  
The proctor shook her head in the dim flame. "Well, there’s 
nobody out here now. Go back to bed. I’ll stand a watch to catch 
them when they try to sneak back in."  
"What if it was  a boy sneaking back out after invading our 
barracks?" Florian stomped her foot, her slipper landing inches from 
my hand. I jerked it back instinctively, and the juniper shook.  
They noticed the motion and turned towards the shrub. I stayed as 
still as poss ible and the proctor turned back to Florian, apparently 
convinced it had been an animal. "I thought you said it was Kalia. 
Don’t waste my time making up stories. Go to bed, Florian, before I 
make you stand the watch by yourself."  
She mumbled something inau dible and shuffled back inside. The 
proctor held the candle up and peered into the darkness before 
returning inside. I waited several more minutes before crawling back 
out into the open.  
I didn't want to risk being seen again, so I made my way to the 
boath ouse. The sentries on night duty rarely ever looked in the 
direction of the lake, because Goblins despised water and did 
everything they could to avoid it. Any eyes searching for threats 
tonight would be pointed the other direction. There was already a 
canoe missing, which was odd. Maybe some other cadet had the 
163  Ash Rober ts 
 same idea as me for an evening of alone time. Well, if they had, it 
wasn't like they'd be in a position to report me.  
I slid a canoe into the water and paddled to the beach where 
Lewon and I had tra ined. I hadn't been back since that night. 
Thoughts of sharpening the practice sword and using it against him 
came to me, but I shook my head to clear my mind and set off into 
the woods.  
I heard the crack of a branch in the trees. But it was probably just 
a squirrel. Since Farean had hatched, all my senses had become 
keener. I wanted to ask Esgeril if that was normal or another one of 
my freak abilities. But we had to be on speaking terms for that.  
But squirrels didn't talk and I could hear voices as well. They were 
low and still far off, but I wasn't alone out here. I recalled Authand's 
warning about Roland. Was he that thirsty for revenge that he'd risk 
coming to the camp? I inched closer; I needed to know what I was 
up against.  
"Does he think I'd really d ouble cross him like that?" Lewon said 
in an agitated whisper. "She called her dragon. How was I supposed 
to know she could do that? We were over ten leagues away. I can 
only reach Calen from three."  
"You cost Roland his prize. And he always collects. If n ot the girl, 
then you," Bior said.  
"But no one would pay a ransom for me."  
"Roland will think of a use for you." From my vantage point, I 
could see Bior's fangs gleam in the moonlight.  
If Bior was here, there would be other Nightbloods about.  
That was the last thought I had before the flash of pain at the back 
of my head and everything went dark.  
I woke slowly. My head throbbed and acrid smoke wafted in my 
face carried by a light breeze. I opened my eyes to find myself loosely 
tied to a huge boulder.  
As my vision adjusted to the dim light of the fire, I saw Roland 
sitting in an ornate wooden chair. It seemed out of place surrounded 
by the crude treatments of a military unit in the field behind him, but 
Royal Dragoneer   164 
 Roland did have certain flair. He stared at me, ob viously aware I had 
returned to consciousness.  
"So, the Princess is the first to wake," he said, holding out his 
hand to Bior who stood to his right. "Bior, you owe me ten gold 
coins. I told you she was the tough one. The boy is still drooling in 
his sleep ." 
"The boy? What  boy?" I rolled my aching head gently to the right, 
following Bior’s glaring glance, and found myself face -to-face with 
Lewon. We were tied to the same tree. His shoulder was touching 
mine, and his once handsome face was a dark swollen bru ise. Slowly, 
my foggy brain put two -and-two together. They hadn’t just taken me 
from training camp. They’d taken Lewon, too.  
"I hit him much harder than Pani hit her," Bior said, handing a 
fistful of coins to his boss.  
"Well, wake him up then," Roland comm anded. "Douse him with 
a bucket of water or something. I don’t want to have to explain all 
my delectable plans for them twice."  
So, Bior fetched a bucket of water and poured it over Lewon’s 
head. Of course, it hit me too, waking me up even more.  
Lewon coug hed like he was drowning, his head lolling back and 
forth, his eyes rolling open and squinting against the glare of the 
firelight.  
"I would have come willingly, Roland," he sputtered. "You didn’t 
have to have your lapdog punch me in the face."  
"Not if you’ d known what I have planned," Roland said. "I 
wouldn't normally lower myself to such rough conditions as this, but 
you are worth it. Thanks to your betrayal," Roland pointed a long 
finger at me, "she escaped."  
"I told Bior, I had no part of that." Lewon sp at. "It’s not my fault 
you’re incompetent."  
Bior bared his fangs. "Let me drain him, boss."  
Roland waved him off. "As much as I'd like to be rid of the 
troublemaker, we need him alive for now. His fate will be that of the 
girl's. No one has escaped me befo re. It’s bad for business. Instead of 
165  Ash Rober ts 
 ransom, I have a more permanent solution for the two of you. I think 
I will turn you over to my brother."  
I blinked, not understanding, my headache making it even harder 
to think. A Goblin with graying hair came forwar d, out of the 
shadows. I did not know their military insignia well, but he seemed to 
be some sort of high ranking official. As he stepped nearer to Roland 
and into the firelight, I could see the family resemblance.  
"This is my younger brother, Ariz, low ge neral of the Goblin 
armies." Roland turned to Aziz. "My brother, I have brought you two 
dragons tonight."  
With Ariz standing next to him, Roland seemed almost humble. 
He kept his eyes down respectfully, as one might do in the presence 
of a noble. Roland bo wed to no king, but next to his sibling, he acted 
like a servant. Ariz, for his part stood with the relaxed confidence of 
someone who had spent a lifetime leading others. His face conveyed 
no love for his brother. To him, Roland was just another underling.  
"I imagine you expect extra payment for it," the Goblin general 
hissed.  
"Consider her a gift," Roland said. "  
"We're not family!" Ariz snapped. "You forsook your family to 
become this abomination." His hand swept over Roland's form.  
"Father didn't exactly  give me a choice, did he?" Roland' 
protested. "If my maker hadn't found me, I would be dead."  
"That would have been better," Aziz said, cold -heartedly. "Collect 
your money and leave us."  
Roland nodded. "The witch will be here within the hour." He got 
up, glancing at Bior who had stood silently beside his boss 
throughout the entire exchange. Then, they both melted into the 
shadows of the forest, taking Roland’s odd chair with them.  
Ariz approached the stone Lewon and I were bound to and 
examined me. "You ar e very valuable, Princess," he said, his breath 
wafting across my face. "And your beasts will provide much 
nourishment to my soldiers. But never fear. I will return you to your 
father. Well, part of you, at least."  
Royal Dragoneer   166 
 I shivered at his threat. Then I remember ed my years of training in 
Kastea. Squaring my shoulders as much as the rope allowed, I looked 
him in the eye. "I'm afraid you’ve wasted your time. Our dragons 
aren’t with us. Farean and Calen are still safe back at camp."  
Ariz laughed,  a hoarse, guttural sound that reminded me of a dying 
animal. "They will come," he said. "You are too precious to them, 
because of that slavery you have been forced into by your false god. 
We seek merely to free you. The world will thank us one day for 
ridding you of those vile creatures."  
"If you live off the meat of gross animals," I said. "It's a surprise 
you didn’t succumb to cannibalism ages ago."  
Lewon snorted out a laugh.  
Ariz maintained a calm facade, but his eyes burned with rage. "I 
hear the witch 's spell is painful." The corners of his lips twitched, like 
he was trying to smile but couldn't remember how. "I wish I could 
watch, but a General's work is never done."  
After he walked away into the darkness, I craned my head towards 
Lewon. "What's he ta lking about?"  
The color was gone from his face. "There are stories. Oh, gods, I 
thought they were just stories. There are witches to the north. 
Outcasts from the seven kingdoms who live among the feral dragons 
in the mountains. They're said to train in the  old magics. Perversions 
of the things we used to be able to do. They say they have a spell to 
break the bond between dragon and rider."  
"But Authand said…" The rest of my protest died on my lips. It 
was hard to imagine six months ago that I’d wanted the v ery thing 
Lewon was talking about. Now, the thought repulsed me.  
"He probably doesn't believe the stories. They're things whispered 
in the dark, designed to scare children. Besides, if it is true, it doesn't 
end well for the dragon. It's like they're dead inside. And the rider 
doesn't fare much better."  
I shivered. "Why would Ariz bother with it then? Why not just kill 
us?" 
167  Ash Rober ts 
 Lewon shook his head. "I think he thinks he is saving us from the 
dragons, like they control us instead of the other way round."  
"Farea n, can you hear me? Don’t  come for me. It’s too dangerous.  Just get 
Authand. "Through our connection, I got nothing but a faint sensation 
of rushing wind. She must be sleeping. She hadn’t heard me, but it 
also meant that she was safe.  
Beside me, lines creas ed Lewon’s forehead. "Calen’s not answering 
me. We should still be in range. I don’t think they took us that far."  
A Goblin soldier approached us carrying an earthen cup. He 
pressed it to my lips. He was a full head shorter than me and had to 
raise it over  his head to reach. "Drink."  
The thin, grey liquid bubbled as if boiling, but gave off no heat. It 
smelled like a wine that had gone rancid in the skin. I pursed my lips 
against it, knowing that whatever it was, it was nothing good.  
Lewon kicked at him. Ou r feet had been tied, but apparently he’d 
worked his foot out of his boot. "Get that away from us, greyskin."  
The kick jostled the soldier, but he didn’t spill the drink. He pulled 
a dagger from his belt andpressed it against my right wrist, 
threatening to  sever my hand. He probably assumed it was my lesser 
one. "The General wantsss you alive, but you don’t have to be in one 
piece."  
I gulped and opened my mouth. He forced the liquid down; it 
tasted worse than it smelled. "What was that?"  
"It will confuse yo ur dragons and make them easier to capture."  
I whimpered. Already, my mind felt fuzzy. Farean was rousing, but 
her thoughts didn’t make sense. "Why am I the only one who has to 
drink it?"  
Lewon shot me a dirty look. Calling attention to a potential 
advanta ge wasn’t the best plan.  
The soldier laughed, a wet, raspy sound. I’d cover my ears if I 
could move. "You both received a dose before you woke. His dragon 
is already here. Yours just needed more encouragement."  
A second soldier approached. "The witch is he re. The General 
wants the boy."  
Royal Dragoneer   168 
 With the dagger still in his hand, the first one cut the knot holding 
the ropes. I was still secured to the tree, but Lewon lunged forward.  
The second soldier wrapped the loose end of the rope around 
Lewon's neck. His eyes b ulged as it dug into his skin and cut off his 
air supply. The Goblin wrapped more rope around his wrists before 
letting the loop around his neck slacken. Lewon gasped in deep 
lungsful of air before the soldier kicked him. "It's time for you to 
meet your dr agon for the last time.  
They left me alone with my thoughts, which I directed at Farean 
through our now fuzzy connection. " Please  don't come. Just get Authand.  
It's too dangerous  for you."No coherent response came back, just a vague 
feeling of confusion and rage.  
The Goblins lit a fire in a nearby clearing that dwarfed the one I 
was in. On one side of it, they secured Lewon to another tree. 
Directly across the bonfire, Calen was laying on his  side with his legs 
bound together. Braided vines wrapped around his neck. They were 
attached to a similar loop being secured around Lewon's neck.  
Ariz was nowhere in sight, but a woman shrouded in dark robes 
directed the effort. I couldn't tell her race. The firelight cast weird 
shadows over her features, and a hood covered most of her head. 
This must be the witch who would sunder the bond between Farean 
and me, if she came here. This was the person who would rob me of 
the one thing I'd come to value more than my own life.  
The leaves rustled around me as if there was a wind, but I felt 
none. A sentry near the clearing let out a yell and then was gone. The 
scream alerted the others, and a company of Goblins stationed in the 
darkness came forward. A flash of blue shot out from the trees and 
grabbed another before disappearing again into the night sky.  
Archers shot bolts and arrows into the dark. One must have found 
its mark, because I heard Farean scream, both aloud and in my head. 
She dropped her captive. He landed not twenty feet from me with a 
crunch and didn't move.  
169  Ash Rober ts 
 I felt a hand on my shoulder and jumped as much as my bindings 
would allow. Meril crossed into my field of vision. "You saved me, 
and through that, my pups. I have come to repay that debt."  
I nodded but said nothing. She pulled at the ropes, but the knots 
were too tight. She shook her head and took a step back. Her hand 
folded before my eyes, her finger shortening and growing fur. The 
transformation looked extremely painful, but she stood there w ith 
only a grimace.  
She exhaled slowly. Sweat dotted her forehead and her skin was 
almost as pale as Roland’s had been. She flicked her wrist and a long 
serrated claw unfolded from her body. She returned her attention to 
me and used it on the rope, slicing  it like it was nothing. Then she 
used her normal human hand to pull the ruins of the rope away from 
me. 
Meril cocked her head at some sound that even my own keen 
hearing couldn't discern. A girl about five years old stumbled into the 
clearing wearing noth ing but a tattered blouse that reached her knees. 
Behind him came a boy of the same age. Instead of clothing, brown 
fur covered all of his body save his face.  
"Tem, Bere, I told you to wait for me in the den," Meril scolded 
with a growl in the back of her throat.  
"We were bored," the girl whined.  
"I told Tem to stay, but she wouldn't listen," the boy added.  
Meril was about to say something, but suddenly pounced at the 
boy instead. She transformed into a wolf mid leap. Bere's eyes 
widened and dropped to the ground as his body changed shape as 
well. Meril's fangs dug into the arm of a Goblin who'd snuck behind 
the boy with a raised knife. The Goblin screamed as she mauled him, 
slicing gashes across his neck he would not survive.  
But the noise had alerted the t roops and a contingent from the 
ones surrounding Farean broke off in our direction.  
"Save your dragon," Meril growled. Her words came through 
slurred by the shape of her wolf mouth. "I can't fight them alone."  
Royal Dragoneer   170 
 I looked back at Farean again. She was surroun ded by Goblins. 
Arrows hampered her wing and taking to the air seemed unlikely at 
this point. Farther off, the witch hurried to complete the preparations 
to rip the dragon bond from Lewon. I wouldn't be able to free him in 
time to be any help.  
I spied a ra ck of swords near the line of tents. I grabbed one and 
charged for the nearest beast. The blade's balance was different from 
the one I was used to, and my first couple of thrusts were awkward 
and missed their mark.  
Two turned from Farean, aiming their bows  at me. I thrust at the 
one on the right, slicing through the bow string and pulling the 
weapon from her hands while she fell back. I flung it towards her 
companion as he was notching his arrow. He flinched as the ruined 
bow clattered against his body.  
I used the distraction to attack. His leather armor held against my 
swing, but it knocked him to the ground. He dropped the bow and 
pulled out a dagger. While my sword had more reach, he undoubtedly 
had more training.  
Farean shrieked and I took my eye off my opponent to see an 
arrow lodged between her scales near the wing joint. Then the 
Goblin was upon me. I attempted to block, but steel bit into my 
unprotected forearm, carving a deep gash. I dropped the sword as 
blood welled to the surface.  
I went for the sw ord on the ground, but he was faster and kicked 
it away. He lunged again. I tried to roll but he leapt on top of me, 
pinning me to the mud. My mind flashed through defenses Lewon 
had taught me, but before I could implement one, the Goblin 
screamed and drop ped his weapon, falling on top of me.  
I grunted, pushing his writhing body to the side, only to reveal 
Tem with his bloody boot in her mouth. Gouges ran the length of his 
calf with bits of leather stuck in the wounds. She spit out the boot 
and ran off towa rds another unsuspecting Goblin, her tail wagging 
behind her.  
171  Ash Rober ts 
 I reached for my sword, but when I turned back around, the 
Goblin was gone. I looked up to see him dangling from Farean's 
jaws. A sickening crunch filled the air as she severed his body in half.  
She also had the she -Goblin pinned under her paw, which she 
lifted, eyeing the thing like a giant cat with a mouse. She lifted her 
foot, and the Goblin crab -walked backwards. Farean reared and 
landed with a thud pushing her claw through the Goblin’s chest . 
I struggled to keep the contents of my stomach intact.A tortured 
yelp from Lewon brought my attention back to his situation. The 
witch had finished the preparations and was now working on 
channeling  magic into the cable physically linking him to his dragon. 
Green sparks danced along its length.  
I glanced over at the witch. Her eyes were rolled back into her 
head. Unless she could magically sense me, she wouldn’t be able to 
stop me.  
I kept my head on a swivel as I made my way over to Lewon. 
Unless they had fled, Ariz and the first two soldiers we’d seen were 
still somewhere nearby.  
As I approached, however, rage filled me. Lewon had gotten me 
kidnapped, not just once, but twice. He’d led me on and ruin ed my 
relationship with Esgeril. Friendship, I corrected myself, coming to a 
stop just a few feet from where Lewon was bound. What I’d lost with 
Esgeril was a friendship, not a romance. Although, if I was being 
honest with myself, if she’d been a boy, I mi ght never have fallen for 
Lewon’s lies.  
"Help me," he croaked, returning me to the present.  
"Why should I?" I shot back. "All of this is your fault."  
"I know. I’m sorry." His breath came in short, jagged bursts. 
"None of this was supposed to happen. Roland  was just going to 
rough you up a little, just for show, until your father delivered the 
ransom. Nobody was supposed to get hurt."  
I stomped my foot."You’re just sorry because Roland thinks you 
double crossed him."  
Royal Dragoneer   172 
 "No, I am. Besides you need me. Do you th ink you can defeat a 
Goblin general on your own?"  
He had a point, but then again, Meril was still here. As if on cue, 
she trotted up to us. Blood matted her fur, but it didn’t appear to be 
hers. Behind her, Tem and Bere fought over a severed Goblin leg.  
"My debt is repaid," she said. "Now I must take my pups back to 
safety."  
I bowed before her. "Thank you. It is now I, who am in your 
debt." And then she and her pups still disappeared into the woods 
faster than my eyes could follow.  
I turned back to Lewon. " Okay, I guess I’m stuck with you." I 
sawed through his bindings with my sword until he was free. He 
yanked the braided vines off his head, which set off a burst in the 
bonfire.  
That got the witch’s attention. She yelled as if the pain Lewon had 
been feelin g had rebounded back on her. She looked around and saw 
that the Goblins who had been hired to guard her were gone. She 
clapped her hands and transformed into an eagle, flying away.  
Lewon crossed the clearing to where Calen still lay bound. 
Grabbing a dagge r from one of the fallen Goblins, he made quick 
work of freeing his dragon. He fashioned a crude harness not unlike 
the one I’d first worn with Farean, and climbed onto Calen’s back.  
"What are you doing? Ariz is still out there," I said.  
"That’s your probl em," he sneered. "I need to get back before 
Authand notices I’m missing."  
"If you leave me here, I’ll tell Authand that you’re working with 
Roland."  
He shook his head."If you make it back, you’d do best to keep 
your mouth shut. What’s Authand going to do i f he finds out you 
were sneaking out after curfew?"  
"So were you."  
"I’ll be getting back a bit later than expected, but my alibi is 
already secure." With that, they lifted off and disappeared into the 
night.  
173  Ash Rober ts 
 I shook my head. As much as I hated to admit it,  he was probably 
right. I’d broken curfew and if the Goblins were really this close to 
Tulta, they might have captured me without Lewon’s help. I crossed 
the muddy ground to Farean’s side as she licked the blood from her 
foot. My stomach somersaulted again  before I looked away.  
"The tree". I could sense her pointing in my mind and looked in 
that direction  
His lieutenant leapt from the tree onto her back, plunging another 
dagger in the gap between her scales. She screamed and reared, but 
he kept his hold on the blade buried between her shoulders. I 
climbed up her leg and faced him. He looked from me to the dagger 
as if trying to decide to continue with Ariz’s order or defend himself.  
I took a step forward and he yanked the blade from Farean’s hide. 
He stood, bringing it into a guard position. The other soldier 
dropped to Farean’s back as well, leaving Ariz alone in the tree.  
The second soldier dropped to a knee and slid his own dagger into 
a fresh wound. Farean snapped and thrashed, sending the lieutenant 
and me to our knees as we struggled to keep from being thrown.  
He rose to his feet, but I stayed low. He advanced while I faked a 
struggle to regain my balance. He took slow, shuffling steps across 
Farean’s back, but I held my position. He came within striking  
distance and shifted his grip on the hilt. I pushed up and knocked 
him clear off Farean’s back.  
She dove at the body and came up again with the Goblins leg in 
her mouth, her teeth streaked with red. The other Goblin’s eyes went 
wide, and I rushed him. He knelt for the dagger, but I reached him 
first. My momentum pushed us both off Farean’s back.  
I landed on top and punched him in the face. His head bounced 
against a rock, and I hit him again. Eyes rolled back in their sockets, 
but still I continued until h e laid there unmoving and my hands 
throbbed from the impact.  
I remembered Ariz and looked up but the coward was gone. I 
scanned the tree line in search of him, but Farean’s plaintive cries 
Royal Dragoneer   174 
 brought my attention back to her. I scrambled up her side and pulle d 
the blade from where is had been buried.  
It hurts,  she whimpered as I withdrew it. Along with the two 
gouges on her back, her wings were torn and bleeding. A scale was 
missing from her leg. I took in the damage she had taken while 
defending me. All thoug hts of leaving vanished and anger grew in my 
breast, that she’d been hurt for my sake.  
I went through and removed the bolts and arrows that had lodged 
between scales. Her wings were in even worse shape than I had 
previously believed. Farean would not fly a gain tonight, if she ever 
reached the air again. I placed my body against hers, my hands warm 
where they touched her. I looked again, and they glowed with soft 
light. I pressed them against a hole in her wing.  
The wound glowed with the same light from my h ands. They grew 
warm, even painful, but I continued until I saw the edges knit 
themselves back together. My body grew warm and steadily weaker as 
the life energy was sucked from me.  
I pulled away and the hole was gone, replaced by translucent blue 
skin tha t covered her wings. I did this on the next wound, and the 
one after, taking my time on each on. "Is that better?" The glow 
faded from my hands, and I rubbed her neck ridge.  
My stomach  hurts"." She rubbed at her belly with a hind leg for 
effect. I rushed o ver to feel for myself, although I had no clue what I 
was actually looking for. I think I ate something  rotten.  
I swatted her rump for the bad joke but laughed in spite of myself. 
I looked at the sky. The Kingsmoon was in danger of setting now. 
Soon the su n would poke above the horizon and reveal our absence 
to the other Dragoneers.  
Now that Farean had healed enough to fly, I needed to figure out 
how to secure myself. I had my half of the harness, but that didn’t do 
much good when Farean’s half lay safely t ucked in its storage box 
back at camp. The remainder of the ropes wouldn’t provide enough 
cordage. I scanned the meager tents and found a likely target. Taking 
care to not run afoul of the stakes, I picked my way across the camp 
175  Ash Rober ts 
 to it. Pulling my Goblin bl ade in front of me, I pulled the flap aside 
and looked in.  
No foes waited inside, but it wasn’t empty. As I’d suspected, their 
supplies lay stacked in packs. I tried hefting one, barely clearing the 
ground. While the elves towered over the vile creatures, they had the 
superior strength. I lowered the pack again and instead sifted through 
the contents. Mostly the packs contained rations of vile meats 
wrapped in oilcloth, but in a side pouch, I found a length of sturdy 
looking rope.  
I ran back to Farean and c oiled it around her chest, securing it 
with the knots I’d been learning at the camp. I tied loops at the ends 
and triple knotted them to be sure. Climbing to my spot on her back, 
I clipped into these loops and gave them a tentative pull. I tracked 
the King smoon once more; no more than an hour remained until 
dawn and even less by the tower’s standards.  
"Go," I urged her, and she leapt into the air. Up in the sky, the 
first strands of pink light of predawn glowed over the horizon. I 
urged her faster, but the sky lightened faster than we could fly.  
A mile from camp, Farean dove back into the trees. It was darker 
there, and I could barely make out the ends of her wings, but she 
deftly swerved through the dense foliage until she cleared it at the 
lake. 
The tower would read dawn in minutes now. We flew low to avoid 
detection, the pale blue of her scales being masked by the dark water. 
I could feel the cool air steaming from the surface, and I pulled my 
feet up unconsciously to keep them from getting wet.  
We cleared  the lake and continued just above the ground, eddies 
of dust swirling around us with each powerful flap. She didn’t begin 
slowing until almost upon the stable wall. The opening wouldn’t 
allow her full wingspan and she tucked them in. We cleared the 
openin g by inches and inside the room that no longer seemed so 
cavernous, she spread out again and beat in reverse to slow down 
while grabbing at the ground.  
Royal Dragoneer   176 
 Her momentum stopped, and I lurched forward but my knots 
held. The morning horn sounded; I couldn’t make  it back to the 
barracks now. Instead, I untied the rope and shoved it in my pack 
before crawling into the crook over her foreleg. Her breathing 
labored but slowed as I pressed against her. My own breath was 
ragged as well. What would they do when they fou nd me here? There 
was nothing I could do and leaving would only make my discovery 
more suspicious.  
Farean began snoring. The exertions and battles of the day were 
over, and dragons need their rest. Her sleep affected me as well. I 
struggled for several min utes, but the siren song of slumber soon 
overtook me.  
 
 
 
Farean and I flew above the treetops as she practiced her 
maneuvers. She swooped low above the trees and I caught my ankle 
on an errant branch. "Hey, careful." She ignored me as she rose again 
and then I hit another branch.  
I opened my eyes. Authand looked down at me as he tapped the 
side of his steel claw against his leather breeches. I blinked a couple 
times and suppressed a yawn. Judging by the shadows, I couldn’t 
have slept more than an hour.  
"Didn’t we just have this conversation? I haven’t even had a meal 
yet since I warned you what would happen if you left camp without 
permission again.  
All traces of sleep left my brain and I stood before him . "I didn’t 
leave camp. I slept in the stables."  
He took a deep breath and held it for a moment before exhaling 
slowly. "Then why are you in your harness?"  
"I wasn’t going to sleep in the dirt in my nightgown." The words 
left my lips before I had even real ized that I had the lie ready -made. I 
looked at my hands; they were caked in dirt with a red smudge giving 
away my fight with the Goblins. I rubbed it against my thigh.  
His eyes followed the motion but he just chuckled.  
"Now I know that the others have bee n giving you a hard time 
here, but I can’t have you violating curfew and coming to the stables 
at all hours of the night either." He paced the small space, waking 
Farean. She lifted her head and looked from him to me, not willing to 
ask her question with s o many telepathic ears present.  
Royal Dragoneer   178 
 I wasn’t sure how much I could say to her either so I simply sent 
her a feeling of warmth and contentment and hoped she got the 
message. Can you sleep with me more often?  The question, benign as it 
was, held volumes of conve rsation.  
"The Colonel was just saying that I couldn’t before you woke." I 
shook my head. I took a step closer to her and hugged her as she 
nuzzled against my chest.  
"I understand the appeal. I often wish that Korth and I were still 
out in the field where w e were rarely more than a few feet from one 
another. But we have rules for a reason. This is your last chance to 
start following them. ALL of them."  
"Yes, sir." Calling the instructors sir instead of their given name 
still required conscious thought, but I  thought the moment warranted 
it. 
"For your punishment, you must skip breakfast and take Farean 
down to the lake to clean her. She must have been rolling in some 
clay mud. It almost looks as if someone bled out all over her."  
"Yes, sir," I repeated. I knew  better than to argue or question the 
boon I’d been given. Instead, I grabbed the bag that had given me 
away and rushed through the still open door for the barracks. "Meet 
me at the lake in ten minutes," I called over my shoulder.  
I turned back to the path  just in time to bowl Esgeril over. She let 
out a little shriek as she tumbled and fell. I reached out a hand to 
help her up, but she recoiled away from me.  
"I’m sorry." I couldn’t meet her eyes. Instead, I found myself 
inspecting the Aluminte rings on the  front of my harness.  
"You are sorry," she muttered. "You have got to be the sorriest 
excuse for a Dragoneer I have ever seen." She got up and pushed 
passed me, knocking me on the shoulder as she went by, despite the 
fact that there was plenty of room on t he path for both of us. Maybe 
I deserved it for running her down.  
I kicked at a stray rock, watching it bounce down the cobblestone 
path before it came to a stop between the rough stones. She’d 
warned me about Lewon, and I hadn’t listened. She’d tried to b e a 
179  Ash Rober ts 
 friend, and I’d rejected her. But to say I was a bad Dragoneer after all 
the effort I’d put in? That really hurt.  
I didn’t see her taking on a company of Goblins and an evil witch. 
I almost wished Lewon and I had gotten caught returning, so I didn’t 
have to lie about that feat. I was no longer the soft and frivolous girl 
who’d run away at the hatching. Now the night dress scrunched 
under my harness barely contained the muscles I’d built in my 
shoulders from the physical activity around camp.  
I might eve n take Florian in a fair fight, not that I expected her 
capable of such a thing. Lewon’s lessons had included hand to hand 
combat. He’d gotten angry because I always lost those sessions, but 
in fact, I let him win towards the end, relishing being pinned to  the 
ground underneath him. What an idiot I’d been to let those feelings 
grow for someone so unworthy of them.  
All I felt now was contempt for Lewon. But he’d earned it. Had I 
been a fool to go back for him and risk Farean and myself? Probably. 
But I’d do it again, even knowing he wouldn’t do the same for me. I 
was learning I couldn’t let what other people did change who I was. 
Besides, his dragon hadn’t deserved to be severed, even if Lewon 
had. 
After I changed and had breakfast, I scrubbed Farean until he r 
scales shone, while she regaled me with stories of our victory as if I 
hadn’t been there. And I had to remind her that it was our little 
secret. It took all morning, but I lifted each scale to clean the grime 
underneath and polished the tops. I squinted,  looking at her as she 
reflected the brilliance of the sun.  
Between my lack of sleep and the effort I’d put into cleaning, 
curling up against Farean where she dozed in the sand seemed 
tempting. But the lunch bell rang, and my stomach reminded me I’d 
been m issing too many meals lately.  
The hall went silent as I entered, and I felt hundreds of eyes on 
me as I made my way to the line. The silence was short lived, 
however, and soon the buzz of voices resumed. As I passed the 
Royal Dragoneer   180 
 tables, I discovered much of it was gossip about me, meant for me to 
overhear. I simply ignored it and took my food to an empty table.  
A group of third year girls sat at the table beside me. They 
watched me sit and, as if a single entity with ten legs and ten arms, 
stood and moved to a table  farther away.  
Empty tables now surrounded me. That was fine by me. Alone, I 
couldn’t hear the barbs being spoken a little too loudly. The room 
suddenly fell silent, and I looked up to see Colonel Authand standing 
at the front.  
"I have put a signup sheet outside," he announced. "Anyone 
wishing to compete for a slot at the Darnetan Dragon Run must 
submit their name by the end of the day. Your instructors will 
consider your progress in all areas and five of you will be chosen to 
represent the training ground s." 
The hall broke into loud murmuring. If I’d had anyone to talk to, I 
would have joined in. This could be my chance to prove my worth 
and be taken seriously. I shoveled my lunch down and got up to 
dump my trash.  
On the way out the door, I noticed Authand  staring at me from 
the teacher’s table. Were his eyes daring me to sign -up, or daring me 
not too?  
As promised, a sheet had been nailed to the wooden 
announcement board. The top simply read "Tryouts" with several 
rows of blank lines. A charcoal stick sat o n the lip. Well, it wasn’t like 
I could become any more of a laughing stock than I already was. 
What did I have to lose?  
I took a breath and scribbled my name before I had a chance to 
back down. By being first, at least I’d shown I wasn’t afraid of my 
peers, or their opinions of me.  
 
 
 
Authand and the other instructors spent a week fielding questions 
from curious Dragoneers before posting a leaderboard  outside the 
mess hall. I was listed as number twenty out of twenty -one student 
candidates. Not a great start, but at least I wasn’t dead last. Lewon 
first and Florian was right behind him. But I couldn’t let that bother 
me. 
The second week, I had moved up  to tenth place. My instructors 
were beginning to recognize my progress. I even made it into the 
advanced class that Selkerdrim taught as a teacher’s assistant. "I want 
the glove from the top of the flag pole," Selkerdrim shouted through 
the amplifying hor n he’d borrowed from the professor. I followed 
her pointer to the Darnetan flag flapping in the wind. Above it sat 
the familiar dragon filial. But a leather glove covered its left wing.  
Farean growled. I could feel her neck muscles clenching. Despite 
multi ple attempts, we still hadn’t managed to grab anything while 
midair. Attempts usually ended in an emergency landing so Farean 
could heal a broken wrist. I knew that each healing provided a full 
renewal so that injuries became good as new. But it still thro bbed 
when I thought about it.  
I exhaled slowly. "We can do this. I’ve got a feeling." She said 
nothing but rose up for the approach. She felt at the flagpole, the sun 
at our backs to reduce glare. The metal post approached more 
quickly than I would have li ked. I squinted at the glove, willing it to 
leap into my hand. Fifty feet to go.  
Farean folded her wing in, sending us into a tilting swirl. Twenty 
feet to go. I extended my arm, lining it up with my target, following it 
as our angle changed. Ten feet. I l eaned forward. I knew in my gut 
Royal Dragoneer   182 
 that I could make it. Five feet. I knew better, but in my mind, I could 
smell the leather.  
*CRACK*  
Pigeons roosting on the stable roof flew off in protest as my 
scream echoed off every building in the camp. Farean dropped to  the 
ground. The jolt sent a fresh wave of pain through my dangling wrist.  
Selkerdrim saw my arm and turned green. "Oh gods. Let me get 
the healer."  
"No, wait." I gritted my teeth through the pain. "Help me down." 
I’d gotten quite good at extricating mysel f from the harness with only 
one hand, but one buckle required putting some pressure on my right 
arm to reach.  
I slid down Farean’s back while Selkerdrim supported me. I 
whimpered as I held the broken joint out to my dragon. She grasped 
the offending limb with her claw. Tears welled in my eyes, and I 
fought to contain them. I’d failed the challenge yet again and while 
being evaluated to boot. At the very least, I would keep some dignity 
in being seen to withstand the pain even though I wanted little more 
to curl up into a ball and cry.  
Soft light pulsed under the tiny scales about her limb, radiating 
towards the point of our contact. I took short, panting breaths as 
heat spread over my arm, seeping deep under the skin. This part 
never got any easier but I kn ew in. Few moments it would pass in a 
few moments. I could feel the bones knit together.  
The glow subsided and Farean released me. I flexed my fingers 
slowly. The pain was gone, except for the hallow memory of it which 
never seemed to quite fade.  
Selkerdri m stared at me, his mouth opening and closing several 
times before he found his tongue. "How did you do that? Nobody 
can do that. No elf has had magic that strong since the days of 
Vernis. Does this hurt?" He grabbed my hand and squeezed where 
the freshly healed tissue.  
The name he mentioned tickled something in the back of my 
mind, a familiarity I couldn’t quite place. I wanted to ask him who 
183  Ash Rober ts 
 that was, but the query was quickly submerged under a sea of his own 
questions.  
"Don’t tell anyone," I told her. "O nly you and Esgeril know." 
Speaking her name still hurt. I wondered if she would betray my trust 
now that we were no longer friends.  
"I." His next words where overpowered by the sound of the horn 
blowing. We turned at the sound. The next emergency drill sh ouldn’t 
happen for weeks yet. We headed towards the sound, soon joined by 
other elves streaming out of the buildings. A few dragon heads poked 
over the crowd, also curious about the unexpected drill.  
We all turned at the sound. We’d just had an emergency d rill two 
days before. It was unlikely to be one again so soon. I moved, 
heading towards the sound, soon joined by other Elves streaming out 
of the buildings. A few dragon heads poked from the stables, alert 
and curious.  
Authand marched to the front of the parade field, pulling his 
harness over his tunic as he went. The buckles gleamed like new, but 
there were reddish stains on his riding leathers under the right breast 
plate, an eternal reminder of the day he’d bloodily lost his hand.  
The aide, whose name nobody seemed to know, handed him a 
speaking horn. The Colonel closed the articulating hook around the 
handle and brought it to his face. "We are under attack from Goblins. 
This is not a drill. Selkerdrim, take Rilith and fly as fast as you can to 
the main  Dragoneer barracks in Verlo to get help."  
Verlo was almost a full day’s flight away. Depending on the size of 
the Goblin force, we might be able to hold them off for two days 
without outside help. These facts came to me easily and instantly, a 
result of o verhearing basic military tactics while playing under my 
father’s war table as a child.  
"Recruits, to arms and defend your home!" Authand called a 
rallying cry.  
Dragoneers jostled each other, some running to the barracks for 
their harnesses, others, who al ready had them on, to the stables.  
Royal Dragoneer   184 
 I was about to run for Farean when Authand grabbed me. "Not 
you, Kalia. Go to my quarters. There is a hatch under my desk that 
will lead you to a cave. I will send Farean to meet you. You’ll be safe 
there, no matter what happens to the camp."  
"But I want to help." I shook him off. "I can’t just cower and hide 
while others are fighting."  
"You can, and you will," he thundered, shaking his hook in my 
face. "I will not put the princess of this kingdom in danger.  
"But—" 
"Go. Th at’s an order, dammit." Something crashed against the 
gate, and the wood started to buckle. "Reinforce the gate!" Authand 
ordered. "I need dragons in the air now!" He ran to where Elves and 
dragons were barricading the entrance.  
"Go to the cave." Farean pl eaded. " I can keep you safe there". I turned to 
find her pacing the ground behind me. I hadn’t even heard her land.  
"Not you, too. We should be up there." I pointed to the sky where 
a dozen dragons carried rocks, logs, and anything they could find to 
drop on the invaders beyond the wall. "We have as much right to 
fight as anyone here."  
Just as I said it, a boulder the size of a cow came sailing over the 
wall. I stood, motionless, as it hit Selkerdrim’s dragon Rilith square in 
the head. Selkerdrim, who had b een mounting the dragon, screamed 
as they both tumbled to the ground. Rilith landed with a sickening 
thud in the grass before us. Neither rider nor dragon moved. I ran 
towards them, and Selkerdrim stirred. Blood trickled from his brow 
where his head had bo unced against Rilith’s bony neck ridge.  
I slowed as I approached. Rilith’s neck lay at an odd angle, his 
head caved in on one side. The Blue dragon was no longer breathing.  
"Selkerdrim, I —" I reached out, trying to help her up.  
"Get away from him!" he scre amed. He had his buckles undone in 
a flash and pulled a knife from his belt as he dropped to the ground. 
"I won’t let you hurt him." Tears flowed down his cheeks as he 
waved the knife from side to side.  
185  Ash Rober ts 
 Farean bellowed behind me. I turned but saw nothing w rong. 
Around the camp the other dragons joined in her baleful cry.  
"He’s dead, Selkerdrim," I said softly. "And you’re hurt. We need 
to get you to the healer." I took a step forward.  
"He’s not dead," he insisted, his eyes lost and confused. "He’s just 
sleeping. Stay away from us."  
I looked around. Everyone was too busy to even notice that Rilith 
had fallen. I couldn’t see Authand, but he needed to send somebody 
else to fetch Dragoneers reinforcements. But if I waded into the 
battle to try and find him, he’d  be pissed. And if no one flew to get 
reinforcements, we’d all be dead.  
"We’ll go," I told Farean. I closed the few feet between us, 
mounted her, and buckled myself in.  
"But"— 
"Now! " I commanded. " You want safe? How much safer can we be than 
flying to the other side of the country?  " 
She considered my argument for a moment, then launched us into 
the air.  
Within seconds, another boulder missile was hurtling toward us.  
"Down.  "I directed.  
Farean tucked her wings and rolled away from the projectile.  
I felt the  air riffle as it passed inches from us.  
Farean started flapping again, gaining altitude.  
We passed over Authand.  
Seeing us overhead, he shouted. "What are you doing? Get down 
here, you idiot girl!"  
I pointed down at Selkerdrim still defending his dead dra gon and 
turned away from him.  
Farean lurched, catching a smaller boulder aimed at us in her 
talons. She labored under its weight, getting closer to the wall before 
tossing it back down on the Goblins. They scattered like 
cockroaches, but quickly returned t o loading their trebuchets.  
I saw Esgeril crouched behind a merlon at the top of the wall, 
firing her crossbow with deadly accuracy. She saved her shots for 
Royal Dragoneer   186 
 those closest to overcoming the defenses. Even so, she’d already 
emptied half of her quiver in the few short minutes since the battle 
began.  
The curve in the wall blocked her view of most of the action to 
her left. We had few enough archers, and that left an unguarded gap. 
I wondered that nobody had ever noticed it before; it seemed 
obvious enough from the air. But what my fellow Dragoneers hadn’t 
seen, the Goblins had. Already, a ladder leaned against that section of 
wall with one of their fighters approaching the battlement.  
I shouted to Esgeril, but the din of the fighting drowned out my 
voice. Farean  banked hard and flew straight at the vile creature. I 
tensed as we sped towards the wall, but Farean was an expert flyer. I 
trusted her with my life.  
Mere feet separated the Goblin from Esgeril, but her attention still 
lay on the ground below, trusting th e archers to her left to protect 
her blind side. The Goblin drew its dagger as it closed the gap.  
We weren’t going to make it in time.  
Farean pushed harder. Instead of pulling up and grabbing with her 
feet as I’d expected, she dove.  
Her jaws crunched down and she grabbed the Goblin by its arm. 
Farean shook her head as her prey struggled to get loose. We barely 
cleared Esgeril, who finally turned as our shadow darkened the sky 
above her. She looked around, saw the glistening dagger the Goblin 
had dropped on the wall, and mouthed what looked like a "thank 
you," as we flew away.  
The Goblin struggled, grabbing at Farean’s eye ridge with his free 
arm, trying to gouge her eyeball.  
She chomped down harder, and I heard bones snap as the Goblin 
screamed.  
"Bleh. It tastes terrible ", she said. " What  should  I do with it?" 
"Fly back over the wall and drop it like you did the stone", I suggested.  
In a flash, she banked, sending us back over the heads of the 
attacking Goblin forces.  
187  Ash Rober ts 
 She opened her mouth and the Goblin screa med one last time, 
plummeting to the earth and splatting as a red stain below us, sending 
the trebuchet operators running for cover once again.  
They didn’t have a chance to get another shot off at us before 
Farean veered east, heading for Verlo.  
We soon pu t the camp and the fighting behind us, but this was not 
the way I’d wanted to earn my freedom. Still, I leaned back and 
allowed the wind to blow my hair behind me. I let go entirely, 
trusting the harness to hold me and relished the feeling of flying 
alone in the sky with Farean. There was nothing like it.  
Farean beat her wings harder and we rose higher. The trees 
blurred together into one green mass.  
"What  are you doing?  "I asked" . This is too high." 
"Vernis  says the air moves  faster the higher  we go. We can get help sooner. " 
There was that name again. But I didn’t know any Dragoneer with 
a dragon named Vernis. " Who is Vernis? " 
"The dragon  king. " 
"Dragons  don’t have a king", I said. " Do you? " 
Farean caught a gust of wind that threw us forward, making me 
grab the harness. The ground streaked below us. I held on as tight as 
I could, but conversation stopped while I fought to keep my balance 
in the tempest. Above me the clouds seemed just out of reach. 
Holding on with my right arm, I extended my left, stretc hing my 
fingers to gain that extra half inch, but I wasn’t any closer to the 
fluffy cotton than before.  
Without warning, we fell, my stomach flying upward into my 
chest. The sensation lasted only a second and then Farean climbed 
back to our previous altitu de. She was riding the currents and wind 
streams, pushing our speed to the upper limits. I felt her suppressed 
panic, as well as my own, as she struggled to keep flying as the wind 
tossed us about. But she was doing it. I don’t know how, but she 
was. Final ly, we descended and the battering winds abated a little.  
"Did your Vernis  warn you about that?" I grumbled.  
Royal Dragoneer   188 
 Farean continued to ignore my questions about her mysterious 
king, so I let it go.  
The air calmed, and we slowed. I tried to match the landscape 
below to the maps I’d studied at the castle when my father wasn’t 
shooing me away. If I was right about our location, we were a little 
off course.  
Farean corrected to the south, sensing my thoughts.  
There was another problem, though. We weren’t going to make  it 
before sun set. My limited navigation skills would do us no good in 
the dark, and I hadn’t yet taken the class that taught Dragoneers 
navigation by the stars.  
Sensing my worry, Farean picked up the pace. She inched closer to 
the faster air above us, bu t the turbulence exhausted her. I could feel 
her muscles straining, her wings aching. She continued like that for 
an hour, alternating higher and lower, elevations, supplementing the 
slower air speeds with more effort. With each cycle, I could feel her 
fatigue, her wings taking longer and longer to recover from the 
buffeting winds.  
It seeped into me like a winter’s chill. My eyelids drooped. " We 
need a plan." I told her."  If you keep up like this, we’ll crash and nobody  will 
help the training  camp. " 
"I don’t like the crashing  part, but why must we help? None of them like us." 
"Duty isn’t about people  liking  you, it’s about doing what is right." My 
father’s words flowed from my lips. And dammit, he was right. " We 
are Dragoneers. ” I told Farean proudly.  "More than that, I am a princess  to 
these people.  And you are the royal dragon . We have to do our best to protect  
them. It’s what rulers do." 
"The dragon  king is my ruler", she insisted. " But maybe  if we save them, 
they’ll  like us." She sounded hopeful and I rea lized, for the first time, 
that the rejection by the other Dragoneers had really been getting to 
her. How had I not seen that, or felt it.  
"You were having  a hard enough  time without  worrying  about me", she said. 
"Good dragons  don’t worry their riders unless they have to." "But now maybe  
189  Ash Rober ts 
 worry.  I don’t know if we can make it. I’m tired and my wings ache. Can’t  we 
land for just a little bit? 
Without realizing it, we’d left the forests behind. Fields full of 
haystacks sprawled below, dotting the landscape wit h fluffy golden 
circles. Maybe a quick nap in one would help. Farean started 
coasting. " Yes, sleep would  be just the thing". 
But I knew we couldn’t, as tempting as it was. If we stopped, we’d 
never be able to find the training camp in the dark.  
"I have an idea," I said to Farean. " Keep flying. " 
One of the things Flatch had taught me was that aching muscles 
were caused when muscle fibers tore from overuse. If our healing 
magic could knit broken bones and dispel bruises, then restoring 
muscles shouldn’t be th at hard.  
I reached out to Farean’s shoulders where her great muscles flexed 
with each beat. Taking a deep breath, the magic pulsed through my 
hands and into her body. Unlike the other times we had healed each 
other, there was no obvious damage to see repai red. I just kept 
pushing the healing light into her until my own arms began to 
tremble.  
"Enough.  You’ll  hurt yourself.  " 
"Was it enough  though?  "I slowly pushed myself upright. " I can give 
you more." My arms quivered in protest at the mere suggestion of it  
but I didn’t care.  
"I’m good. But you aren’t.  Remember,  we both need to make it there. I won’t 
do any good delivering  them a dead Dragoneer. " As if to prove her point, she 
gained speed, flying faster than we ever had before.  
I let her fly; only occasional ly pointing out landmarks to keep our 
course. Slowly, I regained my energy while Farean lost hers to 
exertion. We landed once for water, but otherwise stayed aloft the 
entire trip. I healed her weary muscles twice more, and each time it 
took more out of me . Finally, as the sun dipped towards the horizon 
behind us, we saw the high walls of Verlo in the distance. As we 
slowed for landing, I lost my grip. I had nothing left and just dangled 
limply from the harness.  
Royal Dragoneer   190 
 My mind barely registered as hands loosened m y harness buckles 
and lifted me off Farean’s back.  
"I—" My mind was having trouble coming up with words, or even 
coherent thoughts. "I need to see General Lutania." The Dragoneers 
transferred me to a stretcher and as they carried me from my dragon, 
I looke d back to her entire body trembling as they brought her a side 
of beef to eat.  
I think I must have passed out, because the next thing I knew a 
scratchy voice said, "Princess Kalia, I’m right here. But you’re half 
dead, poor girl. Get the healers for her. S he’s in no condition to tell 
me anything."  
A hand appeared in front of my face, holding a sweet -smelling 
herb to my mouth.  
I pushed it away. My news couldn’t wait. I needed to tell him now.  
But the hand was stronger than mine. He pressed the herb 
between m y lips and someone commanded, "Eat it!"  
I swallowed, and the little willpower I had to stay awake seeped 
from me.  
 
 
 
"Kalia,  you’re  awake "! Farean screeched in my head like a toddler 
reunited with her favor ite toy.  
I opened my eyes to a dimly lit room with stone walls that gleamed 
from years of being scrubbed. The air smelled like the astringent 
healers used to keep their work spaces clean.  
As the fog in my head cleared, I suddenly remembered my 
purpose and sat up. The room swirled for a minute before steadying. 
"I need to speak to General Lutania, immediately," I said to no one.  
"Kalia," a voice said from behind me. More slowly this time, I 
turned to find the General herself sitting in a chair in the corner,  her 
ankle propped up on her opposite knee like a man.  
"How long have I been asleep?" I demanded. The windowless 
room gave me no cues  
"Only an hour," she said. "I’ve been here the entire time. I 
assumed you’d want to speak to me as soon as you woke. No one  
rides themselves and their dragon into the ground like that for less 
than something dire. But I’m curious why you look like the one that 
had carried her."  
I bit my lip and studied the wooden floorboards. I didn’t want to 
reveal my secret. I was considered  enough of a freak already.  
"I’ve been around Dragoneers a long time," she said, seeing my 
hesitancy. "I suspect I already know. You’re not the only Dragoneer 
to have such a trait. And you’re wise, I believe, to keep to yourself as 
much as possible.  
"So, I wasn’t  the only Dragoneer  to be able to heal with magic? " Well, that 
was both a relief and raised a lot of questions.  
Royal Dragoneer   192 
 Here," she handed me a small pouch exuding a familiar smell. 
"This herb will help restore you when you’ve overextended yourself. 
It’s lik e stimleaf but much more powerful. Don’t use it unless you 
must. For some people, it can be addictive."  
I took the pouch and stuffed it in an inner pocket, thanking her. 
But there were more important things at hand.  
"Sir," I said, "Tulta is under attack by  Goblins." Then, I quickly 
detailed what I knew about their numbers and weapons. I finished by 
relaying my assessment of their ability to break our gate and wall 
defenses within two days’ time.  
"This is grave news, indeed." She stood and made for the door.  
"Stay here, while I mobilize the Dragoneers."  
Soon after he left, the great bell clanged. Habit ingrained in me 
from months of drilling brought me to my feet. The room wobbled, 
and I put a hand on the cot to steady myself. I swallowed a pinch of 
the herb that Lutania had given me. It took a couple more attempts 
to cross the room, but I was a little less dizzy each time.  
I moved to the door and down a hall to an arched exit. Torches lit 
the area outside. I made it to the parade field just as the General 
concluded her announcement. Dragoneers raced past me, hurrying to 
prepare for their cross -country journey. The General spotted me and 
intercepted me on my way to Farean. "Go back to bed. I commend 
you on doing whatever it took to get the news to us, but su ch acts 
come at a cost. You’ve done your part. Now rest."  
I shook my head. "I have to go back and help. Those are my 
friends dying out there. Well, at least one is a friend. I think."  
She put his hand on my shoulder. "Princess, your father has 
ordered us t o keep you out of danger."  
"This again?  First Authand  and now the General. " 
"Sir, my father kicked me out of my home and left me to lodge 
with a swineherd," I said bitterly. "He does not care about my well -
being." Months had passed since that day, but bile  still rose in my 
throat recalling it.  
193  Ash Rober ts 
 "You mean a swineherd that worked for him?" The General asked, 
a glint in her eye. "With a chambermaid daughter who just happened 
to find you in the rain and offer her help."  
My mouth opened. I hadn’t told anyone abou t that. "You mean 
my father arranged that?" I asked, angrily. Somehow that knowledge 
made the whole thing worse. Why throw me out and publicly 
humiliate me, only to help me behind the scenes? I’ll tell you why. He 
still wanted power over me, to keep me fro m becoming a true 
Dragoneer.  
"Listen, I’m going," I told her. "Throw me in the Caves after this 
is over if you have to, but for now I have a duty to uphold."  
He looked away before removing his hand. "I can’t allow you to 
go." 
"But—" 
He held up a hand. "I c an’t allow you. But I’m obviously much 
too busy to actively stop you. Just try not to get yourself killed."  
I nodded. "Thank you."  
Before I even called, Farean was landing by my side.  
I climbed onto her, fastening the harness as we lifted from the 
ground. She wheeled up to the faster higher winds immediately this 
time, the moons in the sky providing enough illumination to navigate 
by. 
"Vernis  showed  me the way home". Farean said.  
"Well, lead the way then," I said, knowing better than to question her 
imaginary king.  
The return trip was better than our earlier flight. We had a tailwind 
this time, and Farean was getting better at utilizing the higher winds. 
The ride was smooth enough that I was able to nap a bit on her back. 
We didn’t stop once, and I on ly had to heal her twice. After the 
second time though, I took a bite of the herb the General had given 
me, feeling the energy surge down my throat and into my limbs. We 
didn’t see or hear the General’s Dragoneers behind us the entire trip, 
but I knew they  were coming.  
Royal Dragoneer   194 
 At last, toward dawn, we came in over the lake to give ourselves 
an entrance clear of Goblins and their flinging boulders. As we 
approached, I saw twelve of dragons stretched out around the 
pavilions with healers working over them to tend bro ken wings and 
other injuries. A dozen downed dragons and riders was a heavy battle 
toll. 
As Farean’s talons hit the ground, we narrowly missed being hit by 
another Goblin missile.  
I dismounted and sought out Authand while Farean lapped water 
from the lake.  Portions of the wall had crumbled, but it still repelled 
our invaders. I doubted the General’s Dragoneers would reach us for 
another six hours. And the wall might not hold that long.  
I found Authand in his office with most of the other instructors. 
Floria n and a second year I didn’t recognize stood guard at the door.  
"What are you doing back?" She taunted. "Did it get too scary out 
there, and you came running back to safety?"  
"That doesn’t even make sense," I responded. "If I was looking 
for safety, why wo uld I return to a battle? This has got to be the least 
safe place in all of Darneta right now." I took a step forward, but 
Florian pulled her short sword and blocked my path. Belatedly, the 
other girl, Zimaelan according to the name badge on her leathers, 
pulled hers as well.  
"The Colonel said no one was allowed in. And I’m certainly not 
going to let a coward like you waste his time."  
I pulled my own sword from its sheath. "That’s the last time you 
insult me. Get out of my way, or I will remove you myself."  I 
couldn’t take the both of them, but I was hoping Zimaelan would 
bail. Or maybe even help me.  
Florian snarled and tightened her grip, her face contorting in a way 
that confirmed the orc heritage I had long suspected. We eyed each 
other, waiting to see if  the other would make the first move.  
"Kalia? What are you doing here? Get your butt in here." Both of 
our heads snapped at the sound of Authand’s voice. "What in the 
195  Ash Rober ts 
 ancestors’ name are you both doing with your swords out? Put them 
away. And Kalia, why ar en’t you inside already?"  
I sheathed my sword as I pushed past Florian who also hurried to 
comply. I barely made it through the doorway before Authand 
slammed it behind me.  
"What are you doing back? Not that I don’t remember you 
disobeyed a direct order. I  do. But since you did, I was hoping you’d 
accomplish something worthwhile for my troubles. Instead, you’re 
back her with no help to show for it," He punched the wall with his 
hook. It embedded a full three inches into the wood. He pulled but 
the harness t hat attached the device to his arm came loose instead, 
leaving the straps dangling next to my head.  
I flinched away from it. The contraption seemed even more 
intimidating when it was disembodied from him.  
He moved me aside with his stump and pulled at it w ith his good 
hand. "Well?" He wrestled with his hook. "Answer me, dammit."  
"I did accomplish something," I said. "I made it there just before 
dark. The General and the others should be here in about six hours."  
"Dragon dung!" The hook came free from the wa ll. He held it 
under his arm and cleaned the debris from it before reattaching it. 
"No one can fly that fast without killing their dragon. And Korth 
says Farean is currently down by the lake alive and well. Don’t lie to 
me, girl. If we’re all going to die here, I need to know it."  
"Maybe she’s just faster than your fat old dragon." Outside Korth 
roared. I’d like to see you do half of what I can"," Farean shot back at an 
insult I couldn’t hear.  
Authand’s eyes narrowed. His stare seemed to crawl inside my 
brain and claw at the soft tissue. I’d be seeing those eyes in my 
nightmares. "You’re telling me you flew all night and beat an 
experienced Dragoneer force, with some of the fastest dragons in the 
seven kingdoms, back here by six hours?"  
"I—Yes," I said lamel y. Now I was caught between explaining my 
magic or digging myself into a deeper hole.  
Royal Dragoneer   196 
 Thankfully, I was saved from having to make that decision by 
Lewon bursting through the door. "Calen said you called for me, 
sir?" 
He stopped short when he saw me standin g there. It was always 
awkward between us now. But then he turned to Authand, waiting 
for orders.  
Authand looked at me, calculating, weighing my worth and the 
possibility that what I was claiming was the truth.  
"Kalia claims she and Farean made it to Verlo  and returned in one 
night, and that reinforcements are on their way."  
"That’s not possible," Lewon said. "No one is that fast."  
"That’s what I said," Authand agreed.  
"What could it possibly gain me to lie about this?" I asked 
earnestly, eyeing Lewon, remi nding him with my eyes that we’d both 
seen how Farean could fly when we’d escaped Roland. And maybe it 
would occur to him that I could heal her fatigue.  
"Well, it’s highly unlikely," Lewon said, caving a little. "But 
technically possible."  
"I can’t stake t he camp’s survival on an unlikely possibility," 
Authand said. "But it really doesn’t matter. We don’t have six hours. 
The wall will fall before then. We need to evacuate the injured 
through the tunnel. I will not leave Dragons here to be Goblin meat."  
Lewo n shook his head. "The entire camp is surrounded, except on 
the lakeside, sir. We come out of those tunnels, and the greyskins will 
be waiting for us."  
"We need a distraction," I said.  
"Farean seems pretty good at catching those rocks." Authand 
pointed out  the window to where my dragon had taken to the sky 
without me. As we watched, she caught another of the airborne 
boulders and dropped it back over the wall. "You and she could 
concentrate a barrage surrounding the tunnel exit. It might scare 
them off long  enough for an escape effort."  
I swallowed. The Colonel must be very desperate to defy the order 
from my father to keep me out of harm’s way. Then again, the 
197  Ash Rober ts 
 General had ignored it too. Desperate times called for desperate 
measures.  
"We can do it, sir," I said. "We won’t let you down."  
"Calen and I will help," Lewon said. I suspected he was offering so 
he could keep an eye on me, rather than out of any altruistic feelings, 
but I’d take it.  
Farean and I waited for Lewon to be ready before taking to the 
air. We would have to time our efforts precisely once we reached the 
tunnel exit leading into the forest, but Calen and Farean could mind -
speak to one another, so that would help. The thought crossed my 
mind to "miss" one of the rocks that would be lobbed at th em. But 
Father taught me to never stoop to the level of my enemies.  
Once in the air, Farean quickly caught a rock. The Goblins seemed 
to have caught on to our tactics, however, and followed with a volley 
of arrows. Farean dropped the rock to maneuver aroun d the 
onslaught, and it fell into the camp, sending those below running. It 
had almost hit Florian, and I had no doubt she’d think it had been 
intentional.  
Farean pulled out of her spin beyond the range of the archers. 
She’d managed to protect her wings an d underbelly, but a few arrows 
had lodged between her scales.  
I reached down, pulling them out and sent a quick shot of healing 
energy through her.  
We circled above the camp assessing the situation.  
Lewon and Calen weren’t having any more luck catching roc ks 
than we were. The Goblins were now ignoring us and focusing on 
bringing down the last vestiges of the crumbling wall. Our original 
plan wasn’t going to work.  
"We have to change  the plan". I told Farean. " Rocks  aren’t  going to work,  
but we have to pull the Goblins  away from the tunnel. " 
"Capture  the flag". Farean said, sending images of the game flashing 
in my head.  
"Oh, you’re  brilliant,  "I praised her."  Let’s go." "And be sure to tell Calen  
what we’re up to." 
Royal Dragoneer   198 
 Selkerdrim hadn’t let us onto the playing fi eld since we lost the 
game that first day, but that hadn’t kept Farean and I from practicing 
by ourselves.  
We flew up high, above any possible attack, then wide around the 
battle. I heard Florian’s shrill voice as we retreated. The words were 
lost to the w ind, but I guessed her message. She thought I was 
running away from the battle. Which I was, sort of. But only for a 
moment.  
Once Farean and I were well away from the action, we dove 
beneath the trees and made for the rear flank nearest the tunnel exit. 
Capture the flag was a game of stealth. And if we’d been allowed to 
play, the Blues would have discovered that Farean could navigate the 
forest without disturbing a single twig. But the game was more than 
stealth. It was also about cunning strategy. Lewon ha d taught us that 
the hard way, showing us his team flag, supposedly unguarded and 
easy pickings. He’s lured us to an ambush we’d never seen coming. 
And that’s exactly what we hoped to do to the Goblins.  
"Calen  and Lewon  are ready", Farean said. " They’ve  found a clearing  that 
will work,  and Calen  has shown  me where it is." 
"Then let’s go," I told her.  
She flew forward and we came upon the Goblins rear line near the 
tunnel exit. It was hidden, so they didn’t know it was there. And 
thankfully, they’d left gaps  between each soldier, so we took 
advantage of that.  
Farean picked off the first before we’d even been spotted, heaving 
him in the air to land with a discernable crunch.  
The second Goblin saw us at the last second. She twisted just out 
of Farean’s reach an d pulled her sword. I pulled out my own as we 
pivoted around a branch. We came at her again upside down. The 
Goblin’s thrust was awkward, our orientation seeming to throw her 
off. I had no such problems, this being one of the few things I’d 
practiced that I was actually good at.  
I parried her thrust and used her momentum against her. Her 
blade came free of her hands and slammed into her face. Blood 
199  Ash Rober ts 
 gushed from her nose. A cry escaped her lips but fell short. I looked 
behind to see Farean’s tail tinged in bl ood and the warrior slumping 
to the ground.  
The next few gave us little problem. With the rear guards 
dispatched, our task became more difficult as the Goblin soldiers 
came at us in clustered groups, turning away from the camp wall and 
pushing toward us fo r their turn in the fray. Which was exactly what 
we’d hoped for.  
"Pull back," I told Farean. " It’s time to offer them our flag." 
Farean flew away into the forest, just beyond sight of the 
encroaching Goblins, and I grabbed one of the arrows I’d pulled 
from  between her scales earlier.  
"Couldn’t  you just pretend? " I begged her, looking at the sharp tip of 
the arrow.  
"They’ll  suspect  a trap if they don’t smell my blood,  "she said. " Now do it!" 
"You know you can heal me afterwards. " 
I raised my fist, clutching the arrow, and plunged it into the joint 
where her right wing met her body.  
She cried out, and flapped the wing, quivering with pain.  
"I’m sorry. I’m so sorry," I told her as her injured wing dropped 
limply to her side.  
Three Goblins came charging at us, t heir dark eyes taking in the 
scene —a dragon who had just killed numerous of their brethren, 
suddenly at their mercy with a grounding injury. I saw them all raise 
their snouts in unison, sniffing at my dragon’s lifeblood.  
Farean whirled, running awkwardly, dragging her wing behind her. 
I looked back to see her whacking Goblins aside with her tail, but 
they were gaining on us and there were more coming. I could see the 
bloodlust and hunger in their eyes. There was nothing a Goblin loved 
more than an injured, helpless, dragon.  
Farean crashed through the underbrush, galloping between trees 
and through bushes. And I held on to her for dear life, but I was 
doing more than that. I had my hands on her wing joint, sending 
healing energy into her as fast and hard as I  could.  
Royal Dragoneer   200 
 And then the forest opened up into a large clearing, full of tall 
yellow grasses and blue meadow flowers, like a place you’d expect to 
find a unicorn, not stop to face your inevitable death.  
Farean ran -wobbled to the far end of the clearing and tur ned to 
face the Goblin onslaught.  
Goblins filled the meadow, charging at us in a huge mob.  
And then the air was full of dragons, dropping from the trees like 
rabid stones. Every uninured Dragon and rider that wasn’t helping 
with the evacuation had fled the  camp and come here to our ambush.  
Calen and Lewon took out a Goblin just as he raised an ax to us.  
No one else even got close.  
"Pull out the arrow, " Farean said, and I looked down to see that her 
joint wound was already healing, forming scar tissue that h ad almost 
pushed the arrow out.  
I grabbed it and tugged it the rest of the way, happy to hear her 
sigh with relief.  
The pretty yellow meadow grass and blue flowers were now 
strewn with Goblin blood and corpses.  
"The Goblins just breached the camp wall," Le won said, landing 
next to us. "But Florian’s Masta reports that the evacuees are out of 
the tunnel and all headed to safety thanks to your quick thinking and 
Farean’s acting skills. Good plan," he said, giving me a nod of 
grudging respect.  
"Actually, it wa s your plan," I pointed out. "I just used it better."  
 
 
 
We were all congratulating ourselves on a clean victory, when I 
noticed a dragon silhouette in the sky flying towards us. The Colonel 
was easily reco gnizable on his huge dragon, but Korth wasn’t flying 
well at all. He’s been hit by multiple arrows, and there were visible 
tears in his wings.  
The Orange dragon howled and pitched to the right. Broken 
harness straps dangled uselessly, and Authand held on f or dear life 
with his one hand. Then Korth pitched the other way suddenly, and 
Authand lost his grip.  
The Colonel tumbled free of his dragon.  
Korth snatched at his rider, trying to catch him, but with his wing 
askew he missed. Korth shrieked with fury and tried again but 
couldn’t keep up with Authand’s free fall.  
"Farean," I shouted and pointed. Without looking, she took off 
towards the Colonel. Her wings pounded against the air, pushing us 
even faster than when we had ridden the great air current. The wind  
hurt my face but still we pushed onward, the gap between us and him 
closing with each beat.  
Her claws glanced off his armor before she snagged his arm. His 
momentum fought against ours and I could hear the pop of his 
shoulder coming free of its socket fro m my perch. His scream was 
echoed by Korth who coasted into the meadow, joining the other 
Dragoneers.  
There must have been one lone Goblin left in the woods —an 
archer who hadn’t fallen for our trap or run for the camp wall. 
Unfortunately, he was also a ver y good shot.  
Royal Dragoneer   202 
 Slowed from the Colonel’s added weight, Farean couldn’t dodge 
his arrow, and it struck her just below her heart.  
"Farean! " I cried out, clutching at my chest, feeling the sharp pain 
as if the arrow had pierced me.  
She glided out of the archer’ s range, taking us over the lake where 
no Goblins dared go.  
Below us, the Colonel swung in the wind, moaning on the edge of 
consciousness. Somewhere behind us in the clearing, Korth hissed 
and screeched for his injured rider. I calculated the distance. We were 
losing too much altitude to make it back there.  
"He’s too heavy, " Farean complained, pain tinging her voice. " I’m 
going to drop him." 
"No, you’re  not", I said, but I could feel her straining not to lose her 
grip. Boy, wouldn’t we be the talk of the Dr agoneers for years to 
come if we dropped the Colonel on his head from three hundred feet 
up. We’d never live that down.  
I had to do something, so I unhooked my harness. My hands 
shook as they manipulated the oiled buckles. Thoughts of falling 
from Farean’s  back filled my head, but I pushed them aside.  
I loosened the final buckle. For the first time in months of flying, 
nothing held me to Farean’s back. I inched towards her chest, making 
sure of each handhold before letting go of the other. My feet found 
her foreleg. I balanced myself on her extended limb while I crouched 
to grab at her with my arms.  
She hit a pocket of air and dropped suddenly, pitching me 
forward. Thankfully, my waving arms caught the same leg I had been 
standing on. I struggled to regain m y perch, one flailing foot 
knocking the Colonel in the head.  
The impact jostled him to semi -consciousness. His eyes went wide 
when he looked up and saw me dangling above him on Farean’s leg, 
both of us hundreds of feet in the air.  
"Uh, hi," I said.  
"Kalia,  what are you doing?" he said, his words slurred a little. 
"Get back in your harness."  
203  Ash Rober ts 
 "Grab my hand," I said, reaching out for him. I knew it was his 
good arm that had been dislocated when Farean caught him. He was 
going to have to reach up with his hook and that might get painful 
for me.  
"I can’t do that," he said, realizing the same thing.  
"If you don’t, Farean is going to drop you," I said. I could see her 
talons slipping loose. He must have been able to feel it.  
"She can drop me over the lake," he said . "From this height, there 
is a good probability I would live."  
"I need more than a good probability," I said, shaking my open 
hand at him. "My hand will heal."  
"Okay," he nodded. "On the count of three."  
"One," I said. "Two. Three."  
I reached down, and he  thrust up, his hook catching over most of 
my fingers, but the point dug into my pinky and tore through it.  
I didn’t scream or make a noise. If Farean could fly with an arrow 
in her chest, I could handle a little hook in the pinky.  
I yanked the Colonel up with all my strength, pain shooting 
through my hand, arm and shoulder. But he was up, wobbling on her 
leg joint next to me.  
I yanked my hand back, pulling his hook from my flesh, and we 
both scrambled into the one -person harness. It was awkward and 
tight, but he got us both tied in.  
"Help me now", Farean said, her voice sounding weird and weak.  
I took a deep breath. I’d wanted to keep my power a secret, but 
my dragon needed me. I closed my eyes and called the power forth. I 
heard Authand gasp when my hands began to glow. With my pulsing 
hands on Farean’s back ridge, I send my energy in looking for the 
arrow in her chest. I should be able to push it out, just like I had the 
one I’d jammed into her wing joint. But this one was much deeper, 
and it was bleeding so much more.  
Blood dripping from the wound whipped upwards on the wind, 
splattering my face.  
Royal Dragoneer   204 
 But I could feel the broken shaft pushing away from her and 
poking above her scales. I paused my healing long enough to lean 
over her neck and feel for it with my  fingers.  
The arrow head came loose from the wound and I grabbed it, 
tossing it away. Farean took a few tentative flaps, but we continued 
to lose altitude.  
"She can’t carry two riders," Authand said. "Most dragons can’t."  
"The shore is not too far," I told  him. "She can make it."  
"I can make it", Farean agreed.  
"I’m not crash -landing on your little dragon," The Colonel said 
stubbornly, untying the harness ropes.  
"What are you —" he was jumping before I could finish my 
sentence, his splash dousing me as he hi t the lake with a smack.  
Well, he’d only had to drop a few feet, and if anyone could swim 
to shore with a dislocated shoulder, the Colonel could.  
I looked back to make sure he was okay, and he waved his hook at 
me. 
"Farean,  make sure Korth  knows  where his rider is. "I suggested.  
"I already  have", she said, " he’s leading  a rescue  team to the beach. " 
My foot dragged in the water as Farean skimmed over the surface.  
"Up, "I encouraged her, now that we’d gotten rid of all the extra 
weight.  
She pulled up and flew  to the lakeshore easily, landing in the soft 
sand.  
"I could have made it with him", she said indignantly. " He didn’t  need to 
jump. " 
"I know", I said, rubbing her between the ears like she loved.  
Suddenly, the concussion of an explosion cracked the sky, co ming 
from the direction of the camp. The ground rumbled and shook 
under our feet.  
"What  was that?" I asked, as Farean leapt into the sky.  
We flew cautiously toward the direction of that awful sound, 
Farean staying high enough that nothing could hit us. As we flew 
over the camp, I saw the smoking crater where a section of the north 
205  Ash Rober ts 
 wall had once been. The Goblins were already inside, but they  must 
have found a stash of firerock and were going to use it to level the 
camp and everything in it.  
The sky above us darkened, and I looked up to see a swarm of red 
dragons descending through the clouds toward the camp, their 
archers spitting arrows. The  Dragoneers had arrived. But the Goblins 
still had the firerock. I didn’t want to imagine what one of those 
stones could do to a dragon. Still, two could play at that game. I had 
a piece of the explosive rock myself. I’d gotten so distracted that day 
with Lewon that I’d never reported its existence.  
Taking advantage of the momentary distraction, Farean and I flew 
towards our salvation. We skimmed the surface of the water to the 
beach. I started unfastening the buckles in preparation of landing 
while keeping  an eye out.  
Unfortunately, A Goblin lookout spotted us. I could see him 
waving his arms and shouting at his compatriots.  
"Farean,  if we fly over, can you grab it?" 
"Vernis  says that if my talons  scratch  it, it will ignite. " 
"Damn, " I said, stealing Authan d’s favorite epithet. Most of the 
Goblin archers were engaged with the Dragoneers. Even if they saw 
us, they wouldn’t be able to maintain continuous fire towards the 
beach. We twisted away and circled back. "Well, it’s about time I 
caught that glove."  
We f einted a few times to get a good feel for the rhythm of their 
shooting. There was a ten second gap between the end of one volley 
and the beginning of the next. Ten seconds wasn’t much. Farean 
would have to be traveling at full speed while I tried to pry a rock out 
of the dirt from her back. To make matters worse, in order to get 
into position, she would have to rotate at the last minute, leaving me 
completely exposed to errant arrows.  
I waited for another volley to pass. How many arrows had they 
brought wit h them. Surely, they’d have to run out soon.  
The archers took their usual pause, and we dove from our position 
in the trees. We sped for the red veined rock glittering in the filtered 
Royal Dragoneer   206 
 sunlight, each powerful beat of Farean’s wings propelling us towards 
the ground. I breathed deeply, forcing myself to relax.  
Three seconds until the next arrow volley.  
Two seconds.  
Farean flipped upside.  
One second.  
I extended my arms over my head towards the ground. Or was it 
under my head?  
My fingers touched the rock. For a breath, I thought I’d missed it, 
but it came free of the ground and into my hands as Farean 
completed her rotation.  
Another beat of her wings pushed us away.  
An arrow brushed past my face, just kissing my skin.  
I put my hand to the wound and nearly dropped  the stone. I 
tucked the head -sized rock under my arm and then felt for the cut 
again, my fingers coming away wet with blood. But it was only a 
small wound. We’d been damn lucky.  
Farean rose back above the trees, well beyond the range of the 
archers. The b attle had become a stalemate. Dragonback archers 
were keeping the Goblins from their war machine, but likewise, they 
were keeping us from getting close enough to do real damage.  
I searched for Lewon and Calen in the crowd of Dragoneers, but I 
didn’t see th em anywhere. Perhaps they were with the Colonel and 
the injured wherever they were hiding. When I asked Farean if she 
could locate Calen, she shook her head and flashed me a jumbled 
image of Lewon and Calen fighting alongside Goblins.  
"What  was that?" I as ked her, confused.  
"Don’t  know", she said. " I lost him." 
Could Dragons block one another? And if so, what were Lewon 
and Calen up to? Lewon was a jerk who had sold me to a gangster to 
pay his debts, but he wouldn’t side with the enemy over his own 
kind, wo uld he? Goblins had massacred his village. He’d told me that. 
Of course, it could have been a lie.  
207  Ash Rober ts 
 I pushed those thoughts aside and looked for the General instead. 
She was easy to find on the back of her great mountain of a dragon. 
I’d heard rumors , but they hadn’t done the huge creature justice. 
Flarnor made Korth look like a baby. If the Orange dragon flew in 
front of the sun, I was sure it would plunge the day into darkness. 
How did something that big even get off the ground?  
"Sheer force of will ," The General shouted as they closed the 
distance between us. "I trust this isn’t a social call."  
I shook my head and held up the firerock.  
She recoiled from it before regaining his composure. "Aren’t you 
the resourceful one?" They flew even closer, and u sing dragon -
thought to keep from being overheard, we formulated a plan.  
The General and her dragon broke away, and two greens came up 
to escort us. They were larger than Calen, but not half as large as 
Flarnor or even Korth. We had to be a sight, with our mismatched 
dragons, but no other Blue in the fleet was as agile as Farean.  
The Red -mounted archers focused on the Goblin rangers. 
Meanwhile, the more massive Oranges, replete with their bronze 
belly armor, created a barrier the Goblin arrows simply bounced  off 
of. The other Blues and Greens harried the ground forces from the 
flanks.  
With all the attention on the archers, the Goblin’s trebuchet’s 
platoon was left unmolested. Realizing this, they resumed their work 
loading firerock into the bucket. Aimed at e ither the Dragoneers or 
the camp, the damage would be devastating.  
And it was my job to keep that from happening. I looked from left 
to right, nodding to each rider in turn. We dove towards our target. 
The two Greens crisscrossed in front of me, providing cover for me 
while simultaneously making themselves harder to hit.  
I led from the rear of the formation, guiding Farean with nudges 
from my feet. These directions were passed to the other two via the 
dragons’ psychic communication. Together, we moved as if  a single 
organism.  
Royal Dragoneer   208 
 The trebuchet team noticed us and doubled their efforts to 
prepare the machine. The gap between us continued to close. I 
needed to get within fifty feet to accurately hit either the weapon or 
its ammunition. Closer than that, though, an d we would be caught in 
the explosion.  
The Greens parted, leaving us unprotected but clear to take the 
shot. The Goblin Corporal looked up, her mouth open. The ruse had 
worked; they hadn’t noticed Farean or my deadly cargo at all.  
Our escort gone, we banke d, allowing me an unencumbered view 
of the target. I could make out the individual fibers of the ropes 
holding it together. I shook my head. That level of detail shouldn’t be 
visible from this distance. I set the mystery aside for now. If I missed 
now, the re would be no second chance.  
I aimed for the heart of the machine, where I had the least chance 
of missing it entirely. With my newly enhanced vision, I couldn’t tell, 
but we seemed to be closer than I had wanted. There was nothing to 
be done for it now, and I lobbed the firerock at the trebuchet. No 
sooner than it cleared my hands and Farean banked and beat 
furiously away.  
I heard the explosion behind us and turned to look just as the 
shockwave hit us. The force completely overpowered Farean and we 
went t umbling head over tail. The turbulence passed but not before 
forcing us into an oak. I felt the crack of her wing bone though our 
bond before I heard the snap with my ears.  
Even though it wasn’t mine, the pain dulled my senses. I knew I 
needed to get out t here and heal the break, but an aching pain in my 
chest seeped my energy and sapped my will. I looked down, 
expecting to be injured but my harness was intact. Something was 
wrong, but I couldn’t figure out what because I was suddenly 
overwhelmed with exhau stion.  
Four green claws descended in front of us, the owner of each pair 
picking a side. The dragon on the right grabbed gingerly at the 
broken wing, taking care to support it in front of the break. The 
dragon on the left hooked on to the other side a mome nt later.  
209  Ash Rober ts 
 Farean seemed to be as affected by the explosion as I and hung 
limply in their embrace.  

 
 
 
The dragons lowered us to the ground with practiced ease. Hands 
unbuckled my harness and pulled me up from  my prone position 
over Farean’s neck ridge. They lifted me off her back and walked me 
around to her broken wing.  
In an instant, the fog and fatigue lifted. My dragon was hurt. I 
needed to do something.  
The healer, Tulowa pushed his way through the crowd a nd 
ordered the bystanders to help straighten Farean’s wing. As they 
worked, he shook his head and muttered, "It’s a bad break. She may 
not fly again."  
I couldn’t accept that. Farean would never accept that. She was 
born to fly. And I certainly wouldn’t acc ept that prognosis if there 
was something I could do that would guarantee her recovery.  
I pulled free of the Green riders holding me up, the same 
Dragoneers who had escorted me on the attack against the trebuchet. 
I ran to Farean’s side. The healer shouted , and his helpers grabbed at 
me. 
"Leave her be!" Authand shouted, the crowd parting for him. 
"That’s her dragon." His dislocated arm hung in a sling but, 
otherwise, he seemed to be no worse for our rescue.  
"She has no medical training," Tulowa said. He cro ssed his arms 
and squared off against the Colonel. "Her proximity will only make 
things worse."  
"Or it could comfort her dragon." Authand nodded at the men 
trying to straighter her wing as Farean writhed in agony.  
"Fine."  Tulowa nodded at his helpers, and they let me go.  
Royal Dragoneer   212 
 I called forth the magic even as I ran to her. Golden sparks flew 
from the ends of my fingertips into the leathery skin that covered her 
wing. Then I was by her side, kneeling at the break and making 
physi cal contact. The crowd grew quiet as they watched me heal my 
dragon. I could feel the bone knit back together under my hands. 
Satisfied the wing was repaired, I sat back and panted.  
"That should do it, dear. Give it a try."  
She made a halfhearted motion wi th it but otherwise continued to 
languish on the ground. I scratched at the persistent itch I’d had since 
the explosion while I tried to get her to respond.  
I examined her body but didn’t see anything wrong until I noticed 
a patch of red seeping from benea th her.  
"Help me roll her over," I shouted over my shoulder. I didn’t wait 
but started pushing at her side. "Turn on your side," I begged her.  
Tulowa’s assistants stood beside me, two on each side, and helped. 
Even the doctor himself joined the effort.  
Farean’s feeble attempts slowed and more of the Dragoneers 
joined us. Authand pressed his back against her side and pushed. 
Esgeril forced herself through the crowd and slid between the medic 
and me, placing her small hand over mine. She gave me a brief smile  
before turning to the attention at hand.  
Slowly, we rolled Farean over to her side. Splinters from the 
trebuchet laced her stomach and chest, but that wasn’t the problem. 
A section of the mast, too large to be considered a splinter, 
protruded from her che st. As thick as my arm, it had driven through 
her scales and dangerously close to her heart.  
I grabbed it with both hands and yanked. It didn’t give. I put my 
hands higher on it for leverage, ready to try again.  
Tulowa grabbed my hands and shook his head. "If you remove it, 
she will bleed out."  
"I can heal her." I said.  
"Maybe," he said. "But if the beam has pierced her heart, she will 
be dead before your magic even starts."  
213  Ash Rober ts 
 Tears welled in my eyes. "But she’ll die if I don’t." I choked back a 
sob. "What ca n I do?"  
Esgeril spoke in her, sweet, lilting southlands accent. "What if we 
pull it out slowly? She could she heal Farean’s body right behind us."  
I looked to the doctor. He scratched at his chin before speaking. 
"That could work. But you’ll have to be fa st." 
The magic surged back to my hands. "Then what are we waiting 
for?" Sparks danced from my fingertips above Farean’s hide. I 
pressed against her flesh. The faint heart beat shocked me. Where 
was the strong thrumming that soothed me to sleep on so many 
nights?  
Tulowa gripped the shaft near where it entered her. The largest of 
his assistants grabbed hold of the remainder. A hand touched my 
shoulder. I spared a glance to see Esgeril standing behind me, 
offering support.  
As they pulled, I willed the magic de ep into her body. They pulled 
slowly, inch by inch, but I still wasn’t healing her fast enough. Blood 
seeped and then gushed out of her body. I pressed harder. The 
wound and my hands grew hot.  
The broken trebuchet piece came free. I stuck my hand in the 
opening it produced, begging the blood to stop pouring out of her. 
Unbidden, I thought of Theron and how I’d run and hid in my room 
when he slaughtered his pigs. He wouldn’t recognize that sheltered 
and afraid girl kneeling here covered in dragon’s blood.  
The magic burned through me. Burning flesh filled my nostrils 
and I realized with a start that it was my own. The blood seemed to 
be slowing, but I couldn’t hear Farean anymore. After nearly a year of 
her taking up residence in my head, she was gone.  
"Come  on, don’t give up. "Tears streaked the dirt and blood that 
plastered my face. Behind me, Esgeril gripped my shoulder tighter. 
The voices of the Elves and dragons around us muffled into 
nothingness. My vision narrowed. Nothing existed but the blue 
dragon bef ore me, my hands deep in her body and Esgeril’s on mine.  
Royal Dragoneer   214 
 The magic flagged, but I willed it forward. Esgeril supported my 
weight now to keep me from collapsing. While there was still life in 
my body, I would move it into Farean’s.  
Her breathing became shallow. So shallow, in fact, that I couldn’t 
even see her chest move. Her heart was so faint that I couldn’t feel 
the beating either.  
"It’s over." A voice said.  
I shook my head. What was over?  
Tulowa’s hands shook me and pulled me from Farean.  
"She’s dead ," he said. "You did all you could. But the wound was 
too great."  
"No!" I screamed. I tried to break free from his grip, but he held 
me tight. I pounded my fists against his chest. "She’s not dead. I can 
still heal her."  
"No, you can’t." His voice grew gru ff. "Stop being hysterical and 
face the facts." He dug his fingers into my shoulder. Wincing, I 
dropped to the ground.  
A knife appeared before me, gripped by Esgeril’s thin, delicate 
hand and pointed at his abdomen. "You take your hands off her right 
now, or I will gut you in front of everybody."  
He removed his grip, and backed away from the knife, nearly 
tripping over a tuft of grass in the haste of his escape.  
Esgeril swung the knife from side to side. "Nobody comes near 
her, you hear me? You let her be. She’s as much a Dragoneer as 
anyone here. She’s earned the right to grieve as she needs." Nobody 
approached, but they didn’t leave either.  
I scampered back to Farean’s side, and tried to call forth the magic 
again, but it wouldn’t come. "No. You can’t be d ead!" I beat against 
her side with my fists. I closed my eyes and begged all the gods for 
her to come back. She just lay there. "Vernis," I whispered. "I don’t 
know who you are, but I know you’ve been helping us. Help us 
now." I didn’t know how Vernis spok e to Farean, but he wasn’t 
saying anything to me.  
215  Ash Rober ts 
 I pressed my hands against the wound again. "Come on, you 
stupid magic. Don’t fail me when I really need you." I felt a slight 
tingling in my palms and opened my eyes to see them glowing. Barely 
noticeable,  but there. I urged the golden healing light into her body. 
The crowd murmured behind me, but nobody dared approach 
Esgeril’s knife.  
I gave Farean what feeble magic I could. Salty tears ran down my 
face and onto my blood -soaked hands. The color glowing thr ough 
me changed hue. It was still golden, but richer, more alive somehow. 
"Come on, Farean. Wake up. I need you. I didn’t want you at first, 
but now I can’t live without you."  
The glowing surged. The light burned my eyes. I tried to look 
away, but it was e verywhere. Every nerve in my body screamed and 
pain overtook me. An invisible forced pushed me from her. My head 
hit the dirt, the pain and light continuing to wash over me until that 
was all that existed.  
A dragon roared.  
I recognized the sound.  
Farean ro ared, her voice strong and powerful.  
Joy filled my heart, threatening to burst it.  
Then everything went dark.  

 
 
 
I opened my eyes to find myself in yet another healer’s 
whitewashed stone room. By the light, it ap peared to be late morning. 
Bandages covered my hands, and I felt like a dragon had sat on me. I 
pushed up to sit but found more pain instead. A moan escaped my 
lips. 
Fabric rustled behind me and Esgeril’s face filled my field of 
vision. "You’re awake," she  said. "I’ll go tell the doctor." She scurried 
to the flap at the far end but stopped. She returned and put her hand 
over mine. Or at least over the bandages.  
She planted a kiss on my lips and bounded away. "You’re awake," 
she repeated, her voice noticeabl y higher, before disappearing 
outside. " Okay,  that was weird. " 
"Farean? " I reached out with my mind.  
No response came.  
A wave of incredible grief hit me. After everything I’d done, I’d 
failed. She was gone, and I’d forever be alone. " I’m sorry, Farean.  "I 
exhaled,"  "feeling my throat fill with tears.  
"Hey, I was sleeping ". Her rumbling voice filled my head with more 
than just a touch of irritation.  
"But you were dead". 
"Yes. And you saved me. "She said, as if explaining something to a 
small child. " That’s  what we do. We save each other. "This time her words 
came with warmth. I sent her an image of me hugging her tightly, 
nuzzling against her snout. She returned with an image of me kissing 
Esgeril instead.  
I blushed, even though nobody else could know what sh e’d 
thought to me. " I thought  you were asleep. " 
Royal Dragoneer   218 
 "Aye, she should be. Let yer beast rest." Tulowa said as he entered 
the room, followed by Esgeril, Authand, and General. He turned to 
his entourage, "Since I can’t keep you all out of here while I see my 
patient, you will stand back and not interfere. I assume I have your 
permission to go near her?" He glowered at Esgeril.  
She nodded sheepishly while the other two looked on the 
exchange with bemused expressions.  
"I’m supposed  to let you rest now"," I told Fare an. "But I’ll see you when 
they let me out of here. "Warmth and happiness filled my heart at the 
thought.  
Tulowa came to my side and unwrapped the gauze that covered 
my hands, then examined them. He applied a cream after that, and I 
flinched as the ointmen t stung the sensitive flesh.  
"That’s a good sign. They should heal nicely." He nodded to 
himself and applied new bandages. He listened to my heart and lungs 
and all the other pointless tests that healers subject their patients to. 
"You’re on bed rest for a  sevenday and may have a miserable couple 
days, but you’ll fully recover."  
I thanked him, and he said goodbye, giving Esgeril one final glare 
before leaving.  
The others were silent at first. I understood that. What do you say 
to the person who brought some body back from the dead? Authand 
was the first to speak.  
"You’ve gotten yourself in a fair amount of trouble, Princess 
Kalia. You disobeyed direct orders from both myself and General 
Lutania and put yourself in mortal danger. And you didn’t tell 
anybody th at you are a nestorphen."  
"A what?" I interrupted.  
He frowned at me. "A nestorphen. Someone with healing magic. 
It manifests in less than one in a thousand of us and almost never 
outside of Dragoneer families. If we had known, we would have 
approached your  training differently. Not that anyone could have 
taught you the stunt you pulled." He shook his head. "Continuing the 
219  Ash Rober ts 
 list of your infractions, you interrupt your leaders, and you destroyed 
half my camp." He raised his arms with an exasperated sigh.  
"On t he flip side, Lutania said, "you brought help faster than 
anyone else could have and almost singlehandedly defeated an entire 
legion of Goblin soldiers. I’d say that being restricted to quarters for 
a sevenday is sufficient punishment."  
Behind them, Esgeri l giggled.  
Authand turned and stared at her. "Now, I know we make certain 
allowances for Dragoneers in relationships, but if you pull a knife on 
a commanding officer again, it will be the Caves for you. 
Understand?"  
She swallowed and nodded before squeakin g out an affirmative. 
"Yes, sir."  
Authand’s words didn’t make any sense. Who was Esgeril seeing? 
It must have happened while we weren’t speaking, but I hadn’t 
noticed her with anyone. The thought that she was dating someone 
bothered me more than I thought it should. I pushed the question 
aside for now. I had a sea of others to ask.  
"Sir?" I brought everyone’s attention back to me. "Will I still be 
considered for the Dragon Run?"  
Authand deflated a little. "I didn’t want to tell you this. I thought 
you would  fail on your own merits, but that seems unlikely now." He 
bit his lip. I’d never seen him at a loss for words before. "Your father 
forbids you from competing in the Run."  
I wanted to scream. I wasn’t sure who I was more angry —him or 
Father. Probably both.  I’d never be taken seriously as a Dragoneer if 
I continued to get special treatment.  
There was a commotion behind the door, and it swung open. I 
caught a brief glimpse as Dragoneers in brown and my father’s 
guards in green stared each other down. Father’s  frame then blocked 
the view as he entered, my mother gliding in behind him.  
Lutania gave them a quick bow at the waist before exiting into the 
hallway where I could hear him scolding his Dragoneers, "Stand 
Royal Dragoneer   220 
 down, you morons. When I said let no one in, that  did not include 
the king." The door closed behind him.  
Seeing me, Mother’s composure fled, and she ran to my side, 
giving me a gentle hug.  
It was nice to feel her arms around me again, but I pulled away, 
unsure of how I felt about my parents anymore. Why were they here? 
They had abandoned me. What did they want now? To continue 
controlling me while holding me at arm’s length?  
"You sent me away," I said looking my father in the eyes. "But you 
won’t let me live the life you’ve sent me to fully. Instead, you block 
me at every turn, and make me look like a coward to my peers. Is that 
what you want?"  
He returned my glare; his features hardening into a look that 
almost always preceded a lecture. But then he sighed. "You’re right, 
Kalia. I handled this entire situ ation badly. Please forgive me."  
I couldn’t speak. In sixteen summers, I’d never heard him 
apologize to anyone. I glanced at my mother, and she nodded at me, 
tears glistening at the corners of her eyes. "I’m sorry too," she said, 
softly.  
I was still speech less, so I just nodded and looked down at my 
bandaged hands. Was this real? Where they truly going to let me live 
a Dragoneer’s life? Or was this all just for show and politics?  
My father turned to Authand. "Has she qualified for a position in 
the race?" H e asked.  
"She lost marks for her lack of discipline," he said, and my father 
nodded knowingly. "But," Authand went on, "she exhibited some of 
the best defensive and offensive flying I’ve ever seen yesterday. She’s 
the only reason this place is still standi ng. If anyone has earned a 
spot, it’s her." Having said his piece, he stepped back.  
Father turned back at me. "Well, in that case, I don’t think that I 
can, in good conscious, keep you from competing."  
"Thank you, your highness," I said, the formal honorif ic slipping 
out. It just didn’t feel right to call him daddy anymore. I wasn’t a 
221  Ash Rober ts 
 child. And "father" made me feel inferior. But he was royalty, and so 
was I. Didn’t that put us on equal footing?  
"You are welcome," he nodded at me. "I look forward to cheeri ng 
you on from the stands. Now, I am sorry we can’t stay longer, but I 
must get back Kastea. Duty calls. It always calls." He moved toward 
the door.  
Mother wrapped her arms around me once more, and this time I 
accepted her embrace. "I know you have duties now," she said, "But 
you are welcome to join us at the castle any time you are in town."  
I nodded, not trusting myself to speak.  
Once they left, Authand glanced between Esgeril and me. "I’m 
sure you two have a lot to talk about. But remember," he looked 
pointedly at Esgeril, "bed rest for a sevenday. No funny business."  
Esgeril blushed from the ears down to her toes at his statement.  
Then Authand followed my parents out the door, leaving the two 
of us alone for the first time since I had woken.  
"What’s goin g on? What is everyone hinting about?" I asked a still 
blushing Esgeril.  
She sat at the edge of my bed and placed her hand on mine. 
"Remember when you asked about me having a male dragon?"  
I remembered how upset she had gotten at the question, and how 
she’d refused to discuss it. "You said that it happened sometimes."  
"It does. In Dragoneer circles, it’s usually seen as a sign. Not many 
bond with a dragon of the opposite sex, but when it happens…" Her 
voice trailed off and she examined the stonework in the room.  
"Yes?"  
"When it happens," she drew circles on the floor with her foot, "it 
is usually a sign that the rider is gay."  
I stared at Esgeril, thinking about our friendship and all we’d been 
through together. And finally, the kiss she’d given me when I’d first 
woken. The kiss I had thoroughly enjoyed.  
"I’m gay, Kalia," she said, taking my silence for confusion. "I like 
women. But I was afraid to tell you. I know it’s not viewed the same 
in the central district as it is in the provinces."  
Royal Dragoneer   222 
 I opened my mouth to speak, but she held out her hand. "No, I 
need to finish. To finally say it out loud. I couldn’t tell you because I 
wasn’t sure how you’d react and…" This time I let her finish. "I love 
you."  
 
 
 
Shortly after my bedrest was over, I found myself on another 
stone bench. All Dragoneer ceremonies and events seemed to feature 
them. For everything that had changed in my life over the past year, 
here I was sitting on another stupid stone bench.  
At least I wanted to be at this ceremony. The Battle of Tulta had 
proven my worth. I wouldn’t say I single -handedly defeated the 
Goblin invaders there. But Farean would. In fact, she said it pretty 
much every chance she got.  
"Because  it’s true, "she said proudly" . Where  was everyone  else while we 
were saving  their hides?  That’s  right, hiding  in the woods  while we risked  our 
lives". 
I rolled my eyes, hoping everyone was too busy with the ceremony 
to listen in on her boasting. Never let it be said that drago ns weren’t 
the vainest creatures in all the kingdoms.  
Farean started to protest, but I blocked her out. Colonel Authand 
had finished introducing my father.  
"Today we celebrate those who helped defeat the Goblins at 
Tulta," the king began his speech, "and h onor those who lost their 
lives there. Or worse." His eyes darted to where Selkerdrim sat by 
himself. After the ceremony he would be escorted to a special facility 
at Envinyata. His body remained, but his spirit had departed.  
I forced my attention back to Father as he read off the list of 
names. So many killed. So many broken. I made a silent vow to do 
whatever it took to prevent such a tragedy from happening again.  
"Of course,  we will", Farean agreed.  
With each name, the crowd grew more somber. Dragoneers made 
up the majority of those assembled, with dragons gathered in the 
Royal Dragoneer   224 
 grass beyond the amphitheater. The rest of the audience consisted of 
nobles and other dignitaries.  
"Fortunately, as in most battles, while much was lost, much was 
gained," Father continu ed. "Many of the Dragoneer recruits proved 
themselves that day. Even with their dragons grounded, they 
demonstrated the merit of a ranged weapon. The wall held as long as 
it did thanks to the efforts of the Red riders.  
The red dragons trumpeted in the fiel d as their riders cheered. I 
risked a glance at Esgeril. Surrounded by those in her corps, she 
seemed genuinely happy. And I sincerely hoped she was, despite my 
rejection of her romantic interest in me. It wasn’t that I didn’t like 
her. It was just that I’ d truly taken her evaluation of me to heart. 
Maybe once, I had been a girl who put on independence until 
someone came along to take care of me. But now, I wanted to be a 
woman who took care of herself and her dragon. Maybe someday I’d 
have a relationship t hat was equal parts give and take, but first I had 
to learn how to just be me.  
"When the Greens took to the skies," my father was still talking, 
"their agile maneuvering kept them out of harm’s way while 
distracting the Goblins from the final counter attac k." The Green’s 
cheers at this praise were more muted. They had taken the brunt of 
the casualties on the day. I guess the most agile group of dragons 
wasn’t fast enough.  
It put my teeth on edge to see Lewon sit there with his peers. 
Somehow he’d managed on ce again avoid any responsibility for the 
devastation he’d caused. Somebody in the camp was covering for 
him. I would make it my life’s mission to find out who and bring 
Lewon’s deeds to light.  
"Once the siege weapons were destroyed, the heavy Orange 
drago ns made quick work of the remaining forces." True to form, 
those dragons and their riders provided the most noise, stomping and 
beating against each other causing a ruckus so loud I thought the 
entire building would come down.  
225  Ash Rober ts 
 "Finally, the Blue dragons ou t-raced the retreat, while the others 
rushed healers and supplies to the wounded." Farean and I hadn’t 
been part of either effort, recovering as we were from her injuries in 
the battle, but you would have never known any of that from how 
she took part in t he Blues’ cheer.  
"Aside from the efforts of the whole, there are certain individuals 
that need to be especially recognized." I sat up straighter, and Farean 
stopped in the continuing Blue cheer.  
"She may have been slow to accept her role and we were defini tely 
slow to accept her into your ranks, perhaps me most of all. But at the 
Battle of Tulta, Princess Kalia and Farean proved beyond argument 
that they have the skills, the wits, and the grit to be called 
Dragoneers. If not for them, vital help would have taken much 
longer to arrive, and only they were able to stay aflight in the face of 
the Goblin siege and discover a way to destroy their advantage. If not 
for their brave actions, Tulta would have ended much differently."  
More cheering.  
"Not as much as there should  be". Farean whined.  
"Enjoy  the praise  and admiration  of those who recognize  our worth.  Don’t  
worry about the others.  Most of them have been poisoned  by Lewon’s  lies. They 
will understand  eventually. " 
"They should  understand  now. We saved them." 
"I know," I said, apparently aloud, because Esgeril turned and 
stared at me.  
"You should  just mate her and be done with it. "Farean said, catching my 
response to that stare. " That’s  the dragon  way". 
"I’m not a dragon. And it’s not that simple."  
She let out  a little huff. " That’s  not what your heart says. You desire her". 
"Maybe,  but I can’t be distracted  by that right now. "I turned my 
attention back to the speech, but Father wasn’t talking. Instead, he 
was glaring at me with an outstretched hand. All eyes were on me.  
I looked around, unsure of what had happened while Farean and I 
were arguing.  
Esgeril caught my eye and gave a nod towards the podium.  
Royal Dragoneer   226 
 I stood and scurried to the front as everyone watched.  
I found myself next to Father, unsure what to do.  
"I was slow to accept my daughter as a Dragoneer," he addressed 
the crowd. "As I’m sure you all were. A thousand years of tradition 
broken by a young girl. But she has demonstrated skills and abilities 
that prove she is more suited for a life guarding our skie s with you 
than a life in the castle walls. And for her actions that day, it is my 
great honor to, by the recommendation of General Lutania and 
unanimous vote of the Council of Elders, issue the Golden Leaf to 
Princess Kalia of Kastea."  
I gasped. Murmurs w ent through the crowd. The Golden Leaf was 
the highest honor in all Darneta. Nobody had even received it since 
Father had been king. He smiled at me, gesturing me forward. I took 
a small step and gulped. He reached into his pocket a pulled out a 
pin. The g olden leaf glittered in the morning sun as he worked the 
point through the leather of my harness. After fastening the clasp, he 
stepped back, clapped his hands together, and applause erupted from 
the stands.  
I had finally made my father proud and been acce pted by my 
peers.  
But that isn’t what made me truly happy on that day.  
It was the glow of unconditional love and oneness radiating into 
me through my connection with Farean.  
The thing that made me happy was a dragon . 
 
 


 
 
Sign up to my newsletter for a free book  
 
To say that Authand yearned for adventure would be a lie. 
Life on his father's farm was hard - always too much to d o and 
never quite enough to eat  - but it was his and that suited him 
just fine.  
But sometimes life doesn't give us what we want. While 
hunting, Authand finds something unthinkable, a lone dragon 
egg. Imprinting on a dragon hatchling means his life will be 
anything but  ordinary. Especially when his father, the gentlest 
man he'd ever known, reacts violently.  
Armed with nothing more than his wits - and a dragon - 
Authand must find his way to the famed Dragoneers for a place 
to call home in a world that has little love for  a Black man or a 
feral dragon   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Sign up now  
 
http://bit.ly/feraldragon  

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ash Roberts  
 
 
 
 This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and 
incidents either are the product of the author’s imagination or are 
used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or 
dead, events, or locales is entirely coincidental.   
 
Copyright © 2020 by Ash Roberts  
 
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reprod uced or 
used in any manner without written permission of the copyright 
owner except for the use of quotations in a book review.   
  
 
 
 
To my wife, who believes in me more than I tend to believe in 
myself
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
It takes a village to  write a book. I couldn’t have done it without 
the help and support of my village.  
 
Monica, who is much smarter than me and taught me much of 
what I know about the craft, Chrishaun , Heather A and Heather 
D for letting me bounce ideas off of them, Ripley for phenomenal 
editing, Anna, who provided me with the kernel of the idea for 
this book, Riley for babysitting while I wrote, Inara for believing 
in me, and my mother for always enco uraging me, ever since 
the first time I wrote a story in the fourth grade.  

 
 
 
I woke from a nap I hadn’t intended to take to find the sun high in 
the sky. I was supposed to be meeting someone in the castle right 
now. I shouldn’t have gone out at all, but Elves are made of nature, 
and it calls to us. At least, that’s the excuse I would  give if I got in 
trouble. But I wouldn’t because I was the Princess.  
On the west side of the property, a large meadow separated my 
home from the city below. A hill gave a magnificent view of stone 
buildings and thatched roofs and farmland beyond it. It wa s as close 
to seeing the world from the sky as I wanted to get.  
I was nearly back to the castle when, a shadow sped across the 
ground, crossing mine. Large. Winged.  Dragon.  My heart raced, and 
an uncontrollable panic rose inside of me.  It’s just flying over. It won’t 
come back. But even as I thought it, the rider circled back, the huge 
Orange beast he controlled barrelling down on me. I ducked inside 
the nearest doorway, gasping for breath. Hidden in the cool darkness 
of its shaded overhang, my mind slip ped back to the day of my fifth 
birthday.  
My grandfather held estates in the south, close to the front of our 
war with the Orc’s kingdom of Glamhoth. My mother didn’t 
approve, but because it was my birthday, Grandfather let me ride 
with him as he made his rounds that day. On our way back, the horse 
suddenly snorted and balked. Grandfather spurred the animal on, but 
it almost bucked us off.  
While the mare settled back on all four hooves, I saw them. "Ooh, 
dragons," I squealed, pointing at the two winged -creatures low over 
the horizon.  
Royal Dragoneer   10 
 Grandfather tensed behind me. He yanked at the reigns. "Move, 
you drafted animal, or I’ll feed you to those beasts myself." He 
regained control of the horse and we galloped back to his house. I 
bounced in the saddle and grabbed tightly at the arm he held around 
me. 
"To arms," he shouted as we rode. "Orcs attack on dragons. To 
arms!"  
Farmhands streamed from the fields to the guardhouses where 
soldiers handed out swords, staves, and other weapons. Closer to the 
house, tradespeople assembled any tools at hand for defence, while 
children stacked buckets by the well.  
At the stables. Grandfather jumped off his mount before we even 
stopped. He pulled me down and carried me inside as easily as I did 
one of my dolls. We cut through the kit chens where the cooks were 
stripping the room of its knives and cleavers, sticking them into belts 
and holsters.  
In the sitting room, The Royal Guard surrounded my parents, 
swords pointing outward. They saw us and parted, making way. 
"Kalia!" Mother cried,  grabbing me, a terrified look in her eyes.  
"Get to the kitchens," Grandfather commanded. "You can hide in 
the root cellar. You will be safe there." He pushed through the guard 
and took down the polished broadsword that hung above the mantle.  
"Dad, no," Mo ther said. "Come with us."  
He held the weapon up, checking that the blade had remained true 
after sitting idle so long. "This is my land, and I will defend it," he 
said. "And defend you." Without another word, he was gone.  
The guards ushered us into the kitchen and pulled open the 
cellar’s hatch. Mother carried me towards it, but I squirmed out of 
her grasp. "My dolly," I cried. Guards reached for me, but I 
scrambled between their legs. My young mind understood there was 
danger. That was exactly why I had  to save it.  
I’d left it on the parapet, the low stone wall surrounding the 
second floor. It was the best vantage point of Grandfather’s 
property.  
11  
 As I stood at that wall, I saw my grandfather down below in the 
courtyard, raising his sword to an Orc mounte d on a huge green 
dragon.  
He swung at the beast, but it caught the sword in its talons. 
Another great claw flipped him into the air, his body crashing into 
the stone rampart. He did not move.  
"No," I cried. Hands grabbed at me, and I struggled, biting and 
kicking like my life depended on it.  
"Hush, child." The Captain of the Royal Guard held me tighter.  
I stopped struggling and fell limp in his arms. Tears fell freely as 
he took me back to my parents.  
"Lord Hollysword is dead," he told them somberly.  
I don’ t remember much more from that day. We spent hours in 
that cellar. Only the occasional crashing noise made it through the 
thick door. When it finally opened, the Captain looked down at us, a 
tall Dark Elf in Dragoneer garb standing at his side.  
"The fight is over," The Captain told us. "Thanks to this man and 
his dragon."  
The Dark Elf wore dark orange leather and a bloody bandage over 
his right hand. Father thanked him for his bravery and gave him 
money for a healer. But I knew he had to be bad to ride a dr agon. A 
dragon killed my Grandfather right before my eyes. I did not trust 
this man or the enormous Orange beast that paced outside our door. 
Dragons were killers. They were evil.  
And now, back in the here and now, a dragon was invading my 
home once again.  Was it an attack or some kind of pretense at help? 
Either way, I had to pull it together. I had to warn my parents, or at 
least the guards. I needed to move, but I stood there in my shadowed 
doorway, shaking for some moments before I found the courage to 
continue into the castle.  
I hurried to the wing where Father conducted business. I wasn’t 
exactly forbidden from being there. He just didn’t like "silly little girls 
running about." But I was neither silly nor running, I was on a 
mission.  
Royal Dragoneer   12 
 "If you don’t sen d more resources," a deep and scratchy voice 
said, "we won’t be able to cover the front. Fawla won’t be the only 
province to fall." Voices like that came from long years of yelling 
from dragon.  
The dragon wasn’t an attacker. Inside, my father held court wi th 
one of the Dragoneers of Darneta. They were our army who rode 
dragons into battle during times of war. I knew I shouldn’t eavesdrop 
just outside the door, but if I was to be a competent wife to the next 
king of Darneta someday, I needed to be informed. And the heavy 
oak door was slightly open anyway. It was an easy enough mistake. 
The thing weighed more than I did.  
I leaned closer. I could justify it all I wanted, but truly I was 
curious about the Dragoneer. I couldn’t understand how any man 
could spend his life around those terrible beasts. I wanted to catch a 
peak at someone that crazy.  
Father sat on his throne wearing the thick fur robes he reserved 
for formal occasions. And the man pacing before him was someone I 
instantly recognized. He was the same Draogoneer from that horrible 
day ten years ago. In place of the hand that been bandaged the last 
time I saw him, a metal hook protruded from a harness around a 
rounded stump. This must be Authand, the famous Dragoneer 
Colonel.  
He turned, glancing my direc tion, and I ducked back behind the 
door, holding my breath. Thankfully, he must not have seen me 
because he resumed his ranting about feed for his dragons.  
"You will have to make do," Father told him. When I peeked 
again, I could see him gripping the armre sts of his chair. "The 
Goblins have been destroying our crops. The people will revolt if I 
send food to dragons before Elves."  
"The people will die if the dragons aren’t up to fighting strength," 
the rider thundered back. "There is more to Darneta than you r cushy 
seat here in Kastea. You need to stop thinking of popularity and start 
thinking of survival. If you don’t, well, the other kingdoms have need 
of Dragoneers as well." I couldn’t believe Father let him talk like that. 
13  
 Each kingdom had its own corp of  Dragoneers. It had never 
occurred to me that a fleet might emigrate to another kingdom if they 
weren’t treated well. The idea felt almost treasonous. I would have 
had Authand thrown in the dungeons if he’d said such a thing to me.  
But Father stayed calm. He was angry; that was for sure. A wave 
of color flashed across his face and ears before disappearing. He took 
a breath and set his expression into a deep frown. Was Father just 
going to take the rebuke? A king shouldn’t accept criticism from 
commoners lik e this Authand. I put my hand on the door. If Father 
wouldn’t handle the matter, I would.  
"What are you doing?’ Mother demanded from behind me. "Etlin 
is waiting for you in the gardens." I would swear she was part air 
elemental the way she could sneak up o n people. She always told me 
ladies glide when they walk, not run from spot to spot like I did.  
I turned away from the gaping door casually. "I was on my way 
when I heard a noise. I think there is something wrong with Father."  
She shook her head. "More lik e you were nosing into private 
business." Her frown softened into a smile. "So, what did you learn?"  
I crossed my arms. "A Dark Elf is being belligerent towards 
Father. I don’t understand how someone like that could be in charge 
of our military."  
"They are  still Elves," she reprimanded my prejudice. "Never 
judge a person by their appearance. It is their character that counts. 
And you are one to talk about belligerence. Now go. Ladies do not 
keep their suitors waiting." She gave me a gentle push.  
"But Father -." 
"Your father can handle his own affairs without you. Just like you 
should be attending to your own affairs right now."  She held the 
same graceful poise as a moment ago, but her features looked harder 
now. It was an expression of patience wearing. I’d seen that look 
many times growing up, and it wouldn’t go well if I didn’t comply 
with her demands.  
I started jogging to the  courtyard.  
"Ladies walk," she called after me.  
Royal Dragoneer   14 
 I slowed down but still couldn’t manage the gentle footfalls of my 
mother. She was a true lady, and I was something else entirely. But 
she still loved me fiercely, and I her.  
Etlin slouched on the wide stones  surrounding the fountain, one 
hand drawing slow circles in the still water. I was half an hour late for 
our meeting, at least. He straightened and stood at my noisy entrance. 
A few short steps closed the gap between us. I was still upset at 
Authand and my  mother, but I melted a little at the sight of him in 
his starched breaches and silk shirt. I smiled as he kissed my nose.  
I tried to give a girlish giggle, but, as usual, my body refused to 
behave with the grace and poise I had supposedly been born to. 
Instead, it came out as a snort.  
Etlin laughed.  
My ears turned red, but I laughed with him.  
His arms slid down my arms, taking my hands in his.  
I could have stayed there, looking into his eyes forever. Or better 
yet, we could have snuck off into the shadows and really kissed. But, 
of course, that wouldn’t have been appropriate behavior for a 
princess.  
"Guess who I saw?" I asked him, trying to return my attention to 
the problem of dragons at the castle.  
"Hopefully somebody important, considering how late you w ere." 
He grinned.  
I stuck out my tongue at him. It wasn’t very regal, but I didn’t 
care. "A Dragoneer Colonel. He was meeting with Father."  
"He probably arrived early for the hatching," Etlin speculated. 
"The other races should be here soon. Makes sense th at he would 
want to arrive beforehand to greet them."  
"The cooks have been preparing food for days. Some of it smells 
really bad." I made a face as I recalled the thick smell of blood from 
the cow they’d drained for the Nightbloods. The Wolf -shifters would  
eat the meat, so nothing would go to waste. The Humans and 
Elementals ate ordinary enough food, but what Orcs ate was 
completely disgusting. It was bad enough that Orcs were allowed in 
15  
 the castle at all. But there was an official truce now, because the 
Goblins were the enemy of us all. If we didn’t stand together, they 
would outnumber and obliterate us. Still, the Orcs’ food should have 
been illegal. Bile rose in my throat, just thinking about it.  
This brought a fresh bout of laughter from him. "I’m sure t hey 
cringe at our diet as well. But I wouldn’t mind if they didn’t come. 
Then we could keep all of the eggs for ourselves."  
My stomach revolted at the idea. "They can keep the eggs," I said. 
"Don’t we have enough dragons?"  
"Come now, you can’t mean that. T hey’re our primary means of 
fighting the Goblins. You can’t be afraid of dragons forever."  
"They killed my grandfather. I watched it happen. I’m not afraid. I 
just won’t forgive." Of course, it was a lie. I’d been terrified by the 
mere shadow of a dragon e arlier. It had made me feel like that 
helpless five -year-old all over again.  
Etlin stood up straight. "A dragon is a weapon, just like a sword. 
One cannot blame the weapon for the wielder’s actions. Beside, that 
war is over. They’re our allies now."  
I hate d it when Etlin got all manly and lordly on me. As if I 
needed a lecture on dragons and swords and wars. He was so nice to 
look at and kiss, though. But I was completely not in the mood 
anymore.  
"Maybe you should leave," I said letting of or his hand.  
"But—I—We," he stammered, surprised I would turn him away 
after he’d given me such a fine argument against my silly girlish ways.  
"Go, really," I said, dismissing him. "We’ll talk later."
 

 
 
 
The hatchery lay just a mile east of the capital. Previous times the 
dragons had chosen Darneta for laying their broods, the other noble 
children liked to come down here to gawk at the infant dragons and 
the young Dragoneers chosen to care for them. I alwa ys had an 
excuse. I was ill, I’d injured myself, I was needed at the castle.  
But while my parents had humored me when I was younger, I was 
fifteen now. By this time next year, I’d be making preparations for 
my marriage to Etlin.  
So, I couldn’t avoid the du ties of state any longer. Instead, I was 
stuck in an underground cavern staring at a dragon egg. And if that 
wasn’t bad enough, there were dozens more where that had come 
from. They were tucked behind a large wooden door waiting for their 
turn on the raise d dais in the center of the cave, with several rows of 
stone benches forming a U around it. At least the royal box was 
toward the back, even if its elevation made me feel more exposed.  
Steam rose from nearby pools, making the air humid. No natural 
light pe netrated the underground space, so lanterns were suspended 
from the ceiling, casting a flickering yellow glow on everything.  
"When is it going to do something?" I asked, fidgeting in my seat. 
"We’ve been here an hour already." Pretending to be bored wasn’t  as 
easy as I’d hoped, when all I really wanted to do was flee.  
"You are witnessing the miracle of life, young lady." Mother 
patted my hand firmly enough to express her disproval. "A new soul 
being born into the world. It cannot be rushed."  
How could she f orget that one of those ‘miracles of life’ had 
ended her father’s? How could she be so forgiving?  
Royal Dragoneer   18 
 "But I don’t want to be here," I moaned. "I want to go home and 
witness the miracle of a soft bed."  
Mother glared at me, and I knew I had crossed a line. She gave me 
her disappointed nod, the kind that meant her reprimand would 
come later, in private, where I couldn’t make a scene. Father, 
however, had no such qualms. He turned in his chair and leaned in 
close to my face. I pulled back, but he grabbed my wrists —right 
there in front of the guards and servants, and even the commoners 
closest to our box.  
"You are the princess of Darneta, the greatest of the Seven 
Kingdoms," he said. "You have a duty to your people to be present 
for important events. You don’t have to like it. Now, sit and watch 
these eggs until something happens. And when they hatch, you will 
cheer and look happy."  
He turned back around in his seat, facing the dais with its egg. 
Mother passed me a cloth, and I dabbed my eyes, careful not to 
smear th e little bit of makeup I’d been allowed to wear. I glanced 
around. The guards stood stoic as ever, but the servants were doing 
their best not to look in my direction. A few rows ahead of us, I 
caught Etlin’s eyes. He looked away quickly, pretending to be 
intensely interested in the egg as it sat on the heated rocks.  
I took a breath, looking at it myself. I could do this. After all, it 
was just an egg. An egg couldn’t kill. That came later. When it 
hatched. But for now, it was just an egg, like the chicken e ggs I ate 
for breakfast, only larger.  
I studied it. It stood three feet high and could have been a rock if 
not for the perfect ovoid shape of it. Once, dragons had hatched in 
the wild, and the mother’s had arranged their eggs to look like natural 
formation s to protect from predators. I couldn’t image what 
predators a dragon could have.  
The egg wobbled.  
I sucked in my breath. It wouldn’t be just an egg much longer.  
It wobbled again, and a crack formed near the top.  
19  Ash Rober ts 
 I tried not to panic, gripping my seat with  both hands to keep 
myself from jumping up and running out.  
Silence fell over the crowd as we watched the egg fracture.  
The potential Dragoneers scrambled for position, the older teens 
pushing to get in front while some of the younger contestants sought 
shelter behind their larger competitors. Save for the Dwarves, who 
abhorred the very thought of flight, every kingdom race was 
represented on the hatching floor. A Wolf -shifter and a Nightblood 
shoved each other, nearly breaking into a fight.  
Then, a tapping  sound froze everyone, and a blue beak thrust 
through a crack in the shell. Tiny silver talons poked out next, 
pushing the opening wider. Finally, the egg split open in fractured 
pieces, and an infant dragon spilled from it.  
It pushed up on its wing claws and craned its head, looking around 
and screeching like one of Father’s racing hawks, except louder. It 
stood about five feet tall, and light filtered through the translucent 
wings to cast a blue pall over the nearby contestants. As it swung its 
head this way and that, crying for its mother, I got a good look at its 
odd-shaped skull.  
"What’s wrong with it?" I blurted.  
The entire audience turned at my outburst and stared. I felt my 
ears growing red. But there was something obviously wrong with the 
dragon. Us ually, the monsters had large, pointy, Elf -like ears. They 
didn’t have stubby little flaps.  
The dignitaries and hopefuls weren’t the only one whose attention 
I had caught.  
The baby dragon turned its head and looked at me, its eyes 
seeming to pierce my soul  and examine the very heart of me.  
"She". I heard a voice whisper behind me.  
I whirled around but there was no one there. Slowly, I turned back 
to the dragon.  
"She", the voice said again. " I’m a girl, like you. Don’t  worry;  my features  
will grow in time to look more like yours". 
Royal Dragoneer   20 
 I jumped up, sending my chair flying. I scrambled backwards, 
away from the dragon.  
It hissed and stumbled towards the stands, barreling through the 
contestants on the hatching floor.  
The spectators backed away, crowding the sides of  the viewing 
area. 
It – "I keep telling  you, I’m a she" – screeched again and started 
climbing up the rock wall that separated the arena from the royal 
viewing box.  
I cowered in the corner as the dragon approached. The little blue 
creature wasn’t as tall a s a grown man, but all I could see, in my 
mind’s eye, was the huge green dragon that had killed my 
Grandfather.  
"Get that beast under control," my father shouted.  
Guards closed in around my parents with spears pointed at the 
evil thing.  
"No, protect my dau ghter." He shooed them away. "It’s after the 
Princess. Save her." He pulled his own sword out. It was only a 
ceremonial piece with a gem -encrusted hilt and polished blade, but I 
appreciated the gesture.  
A guard stepped towards the dragon; it eyed him with tilted head 
as if trying to decide if he were friend or foe. Three more guards 
converged around me.  
The dragon saw this and leapt into the air. I thought it was going 
to fly away, but instead the creature tumbled back to the ground right 
on top of me.  
My b reath left me as its head pushed into my chest. I couldn’t 
move. This was it. Hopefully Grandfather would meet me on the 
other side to lead me to the Fields of Arman. Maybe there was a 
special section for those who had been killed by dragons.  
But instead o f chomping down on my head or impaling me with 
its sharp claws, the dragon turned towards the guards, rose to its hind 
legs and flapped its wings.  
I sucked in a breath as its weight lifted off my chest.  
21  Ash Rober ts 
 A guard thrust his sword, and the dragon backed from it, pinning 
me once again.  
"Get off of me," I gasped, bringing my arms up to my head. To 
the guards, I pleaded. "Help me."  
The dragon hissed and snapped at the men as they pressed closer. 
From under the beast, I could see their expressions as my father’s 
soldiers debated whether they could kill it.  
"Stop!" shouted a voice, echoing through the chamber. "Get away 
from that dragon," Colonel Authand commanded. He hadn’t been 
present at the beginning of the hatching, but he was here now. His 
Orange dragon, too l arge to fit into the hatching cavern, peeked its 
head through a door and trumpeted in displeasure.  
Why was he protecting a dragon that was attacking me? A growl 
of frustration rose up in my throat. " Wait,  had I just growled? " 
"I’m not attacking  you. "The whispery voice in my head said. " I’m 
keeping  you safe from these assassins ". 
The Colonel closed the distance to the seating area and leapt over 
the wall. He reached the guards surrounding us and yanked the first 
one away by his sword arm. The guard twisted  and swung at 
Authand, but despite his disability the Colonel dodged the blow with 
ease. 
"Back off," he said, and the other guards obeyed. "She is only 
protecting her rider."  
"Exactly.  You are my rider and it is my duty to save you from these 
scoundrels. " 
That was when I realized the voice I’d been hearing was the 
dragon hatchling. But its mouth didn’t move when it spoke to me. It 
was speaking directly into my mind.  

 
 
 
"But I can’t be a rider," I protested. "I’m th e Princess."  
Authand moved towards me and the guards gave him even more 
space. I could feel the dragon relax as it slid off of me gently. Relief 
washed over me. But the feeling was odd, alien, like it wasn’t my own 
emotion but something coming from outside  of me. I looked at the 
dragon and cocked my head in a silent question. It actually nodded, 
and I added that to the long list of really weird things that were 
happening today.  
Father and Mother came forward, cautiously, keeping well out of 
the reach of the  dragon. Mother looked worried. Father looked angry 
and perplexed.  
"Dragons don’t care about rank or society," Authand explained. 
"They choose their riders based on the qualities of a good companion 
and rider. Sometimes, they even see traits in us that we,  ourselves, 
cannot."  
"That’s  right, "the voice in my head said."  And you are the bravest  and 
most loyal in all of Darneta ". 
A large Orange dragon snout poked through the doorway and 
snorted.  
The Colonel shook his head. "Or sometimes, the dragon is just 
young and foolish and exercises poor judgement."  
I bristled at the comment, but I had to agree. This stupid animal 
had made a terrible mistake. I could not possibly be a good 
companion or rider to something I despised.  
Authand rubbed the dragon on her shoulde r, and conflicting 
emotions filled me. She seemed to be enjoying it, and that made me 
happy for some reason. But part of me wanted to push him away and 
Royal Dragoneer   24 
 do it myself. Which was crazy. How could I want to touch a dragon, 
let alone rub its shoulder?  
The drago n’s spiked tail stopped switching back and forth. The 
Colonel patted her twice and took a step towards me. He took my 
hand in his. It was dry and rough, scratching my delicate skin. He 
spoke barely above a whisper, words meant for me and no other. 
"Princes s Kalia, I know this may not be want you wanted, but this is 
a baby who needs you now. You have a duty to it, and your nation, to 
help her grow into an adult."  
I pulled away from him. He had no business telling me what I had 
to do. "But I can’t." My eyes p leaded with his.  
He shook his head. "You will learn." He gave a small smile and 
guided my hand to the dragon’s back. Loud enough for the crowd to 
hear, he said, "Now, the first step is to get your dragon out of the 
seating area and into the back. Korth wil l meet you there to get you 
started, and we can give the other eggs a chance to hatch."  
He pushed again, and I took a step forward. I had been so caught 
up in the events of the past few minutes that I had forgotten that 
everybody, literally every important  person in Darneta, and more 
than a few from the other kingdoms, had watched this drama unfold. 
I’d made enough of a scene for one day and decided that the back 
portion of this cavern would be more comfortable than the looks I 
was getting.  
As I passed my p arents, I glanced at them. Father scowled.  
I wanted to tell him this was his fault. If he hadn’t insisted I attend 
the hatching, none of this would have happened.  
Mother bit her lip. I caught her eyes, glistening with tears. The 
action of looking at me see med to burst the dam of her composure 
and she started crying.  
Father took her in his arms to console her. He looked up as 
Authand led us out of the royal box. Mother’s tears hadn’t softened 
him; if anything, he was angrier now.  
Fine, let him be angry. I wa sn’t exactly happy about it either.  
"Do you want me to eat him?" 
25  Ash Rober ts 
 "Shush, you. There will be no eating of anybody," I said aloud. 
The crowd pressed away from us even more.  
I stopped at the wall. I couldn’t climb over it in my dress without 
being immodest. The Colonel nodded me forward, but I stood 
motionless. He cocked his head towards the dragon door and seemed 
to realize my plight. He stepped behind me and scooped me up.  
I let out a shriek at being airborne but was back down on the 
other side a moment lat er. The crowd seemed to find it funny. Great, 
even more to be embarrassed about.  
"If they tease you, I will eat them". 
"I said no eating people." The tittering and murmuring ceased.  
Authand gestured me forward and we started towards the rear 
chamber again.  He leaned in close and whispered, "You know, you 
can communicate silently with her. It would be better to do so than 
to keep publicly reporting her infant whims about eating people."  
"How do I do that?"  
"Think of her and just say the words in your mind," he said.  
I took in the sight of this creature who had adopted me as her 
mother and thought at it, Can you hear me? 
"Yes, Kalia.  I can hear you. And please  don’t call me ‘it’. That hurts my 
feelings ". 
"Sorry". I looked down.  
"Practice this, both of you," Au thand said. "In time, you will learn 
to pay attention to only the thoughts directed at you, instead of 
hearing all of them."  
I cringed at the word " all." In spite of everything that had been 
going on, my thoughts had gone to Etlin when the Colonel had 
swoo ped me up in his arms. I had wished it had been Etlin’s arms 
instead.  
"Have you had a mating  flight with him yet?" 
Authand snorted. Wait. Could he hear her too? Could he hear me? 
Did being stuck with a dragon mean I had to give up any semblance 
of privacy?  "What is your name?" I asked her, forgetting to say it with 
my mind.  
Royal Dragoneer   26 
 "I am Farean.  We are going to be great friends. " 
I doubted that, but kept my mouth shut as we reached the rear 
doors. They were bigger than normal ones, but not quite as large as 
the one s leading to the throne room. Authand pulled them open 
effortlessly, and Farean and I were able to pass through side by side.  
We entered a cavern that dwarfed the hatching chamber. Fires 
dotted the floor clustered around caches of eggs. Acrid smoke 
cloaked  the ceiling and stained the walls. I pulled out Mother’s cloth 
to dab the beads of sweat forming at my brow.  
The enormous Orange dragon from the door earlier met us. I tried 
to back away, but with Authand behind me, I had nowhere to go. 
"This is Korth," I  was introduced, as if he were a lord or something. 
"He will help you get settled." Authand stepped past us and rubbed 
the behemoth’s muzzle. The man’s gaze seemed almost that of a 
lover’s. A small smile flickered across his lips before his features 
return ed to the gruff expression he usually wore. He shouted over to 
where some Elves and smaller dragons were huddled, "Bring out the 
next egg. C’mon. Let’s get this show moving before they all hatch in 
here."  
The group burst into a frenzy of activity as two gr een dragons 
lifted the egg from a nest and lowered it onto a cart. The Elves 
pushed it to the door and out to the hatching grounds. I watched as 
they arrayed themselves in a circle and hoisted the egg. The five 
holding it up seemed to struggle as the sixth  pulled the cart out. They 
lowered it onto the hot rocks and the taller one leaned in and 
whispered to the egg. That done, they hurried back inside.  
"Those are second year trainees. Next year, you might help with 
the hatching if eggs are laid in Darneta ag ain," Authand said.  
"Over my dead body." I glanced at the dragon hatchling beside me 
and gulped. To get the image of it eating me out of my mind, I 
focused on a tall boy as he broke away from the group. Authand 
waved him towards us. "This is Lewon, the hea d of his class."  
"What did he say to the egg?" I asked as he approached.  
27  Ash Rober ts 
 "He gave it permission to hatch. It’s not a science, as Farean just 
proved, but they generally wait until we tell them it’s show time."  
Lewon closed the gap between us and held out his hand in the 
typical manner of the outer provinces. I raised the back of my hand 
to his, hinting at the proper etiquette for being introduced to a lady. 
He looked at it like he wasn’t sure what he was supposed to do. My 
ears turned red and I lowered my hand.  
"I bet you wouldn’t  mind a mating  flight with him". My ear tips grew 
warmer, and Lewon broke out laughing. Great, I had a faulty dragon 
that anybody could listen in on.  
"Just the other dragons.  I can’t help what they share with their riders. " 
"Well, just shut up and stop embarrassing  me". I stomped off like a 
child, but it followed me as I headed away from the others.  
"She." Her ‘voice’ was filled with annoyance. " How would  you like it 
if I called you an it?" She turned her head towards Korth and nodd ed 
before returning her attention back on me. " He says we must go down to 
the pool, so you can wash me". 
"What?" I said, forgetting to think my words to her. "Do I look 
like a servant to you? I’m not " touching " you with a ten -foot pole." 
The Elves and drag ons paused their work of loading an egg as my 
voice echoed through the underground cavern.  
There were entirely too many dragons near me. Arenaline coursing 
through my body made me jittery, every nerve screaming for me to 
run. I glanced around. If an adult dragon couldn’t come through the 
door to the hatching floor, there must be another exit.  
Korth directed the events of the backroom as a young red dragon 
entered with the Nightblood candidate I’d seen earlier, and the 
second years brought out another egg.  
Behind the Orange beast, a tunnel large enough for even his bulk 
retreated into darkness. Flickering dots of light from torches on the 
walls receded into the distance.  
I headed in that direction.  
Farean followed me. " Where  are you going?  The pool is the other way". 
To add to her mental plea, she trumpeted and floundered around the 
Royal Dragoneer   28 
 dirt floor, kicking up a cloud of dust and getting everyone’s attention 
again.  
I picked up my pace, now as close to a run as my dress would 
allow.  
Farean bounced awkwardly as she t ried to gallop to keep up.  
Authand intercepted me before I could reach the tunnel, grabbing 
my arm and nearly yanking it out of its socket. "You’re supposed to 
stay with your dragon here at the hatchery until she is old enough to 
fly, and then you leave fo r the training grounds."  
I’d had enough of people grabbing me and pushing me around for 
one day. I pulled loose from his grip; more out of surprise on his part 
than strength on mine. "I am not sleeping on a dirt floor in what 
amounts to a stable. There’s b een a huge mistake. I’m not fit to take 
care of Farean. I’m going home where there are no dragons."  
I pushed past him and on to the tunnel.  
Lewon started after me, but Authand stopped him. "Wait," he 
said. "She won’t get far."  
"I’ll show him", I thought as  I plunged into the darkness.  
 
 
 
The tunnel wasn’t too bad. The torches provided enough light to 
see by as it sloped up towards the surface. Compared to the heat of 
the hatching cavern, though, it was downright damp and chilly.  
Heavy footsteps followed me into the darkness. I kept up my 
pace, hoping to put some distance between me and my pursuer.  
"Wait for me," Farean whined.  
I used it as encouragement to keep going.  
At last, daylight shone at the mouth of the tunnel. I stepped into 
the open air. Dark clouds covered the sun, and cold wind gusted 
around me. I considered finding my parent’s carriage and taking it 
back, but I was in enough trouble and didn’t want to add to it. 
Instead, I hurried down the path.  
Farean followed me through the woods and into the capital. Elves 
dove out of our way and ducked behind carts and barrels as we 
walked through the streets. I wished I could do the same, but there 
was no losing her. For her part, she ignored them. Her head swive led 
as she walked, like a newborn baby on its first trip outside, which 
technically she was. Her tail swung back and forth, occasionally 
knocking over barrels of salted fish or grain. I felt a raindrop and 
quickened my pace.  
I was huffing by the time I rea ched the castle. The guard at the 
door eyed me, no doubt wondering what I was doing home without 
my parents and in such a state.  
I made it back to my room and had to light a candle. The sky had 
grown so dark that I might have mistaken it for twilight. I ha d the 
presence of mind to close my shutters before collapsing on my bed, 
Royal Dragoneer   30 
 the oak frame creaking as it distributed my weight across the four 
posters supporting a silk canopy.  
I heard shouts from the floor below, but I couldn’t concentrate on 
them. I felt ic ky and needed a bath, but all I could think about was 
sleep. I kicked off my destroyed sandals but otherwise crawled under 
the wool blankets fully dressed.  
I woke to Farean’s whining echoing in my head. " Kalia,  I can’t reach 
you. Kalia,  why did you leave me? Kalia,  come here, pleeeeeeeease. " 
I squeezed my eyes together harder, as if that would keep her 
voice out of my brain. I brought a pillow over my head, but the 
psychic connection would not be silenced. And outside, I could still 
hear the rainstorm that had descended over the city, raging and 
matching my mood.  
A knock on my door brought me out from under my pillow. 
"Enter," I called, not caring how I looked.  
A maid, the same one from yesterday, shuffled in, her head down. 
"Princess, there is a dragon in t he main hall. It says that it’s with 
you?"  
"Do I look like I have a dragon?" I snapped. "Tell it to leave. It is 
not welcome here. And draw me a bath."  
She didn’t move. "The dragon won’t leave. The porter said it came 
in with you, making it your responsibi lity. Please, my lady. Your 
parents aren’t here, and it is scaring everybody."  
"It’s scaring me as well." I sighed. "Fine. I will send it away. But 
prepare that bath, I wasn’t kidding about that."  
"Kalia,  Kalia.  Where  are you? I neeeeeed  you". 
I took the s teps two at a time. "Oh, shut up. I’m coming." I passed 
a different maid, and she stopped at my outburst. "Not you. Go do 
something." She shook her head and continued up the stairs. Great, 
now I had the servants thinking I was crazy. I wished I was crazy; it 
would be preferable to owning a dragon that would eat me at the first 
opportunity, like the bears that the Orcs trained but were always 
attacking their masters.  
31  Ash Rober ts 
 I found Farean in the great hall with a few servants, their backs 
pressed against the far wa ll. As I stepped into the room, happiness 
washed over me.  
"Kalia.  You came back". "Oh, Kalia.  I knew you’d come back". 
I hesitantly reached out to her. My hand shook as it inched closer 
to her muzzle. " Please  don’t bite me. Please  don’t bite me." 
"I would  never do that". She pushed her nose towards my hand. It 
made contact, and I jumped back. I nervously glanced around the 
room, but the servants had vanished. I reached out again. I touched 
her snout lightly and, sensing no attack, allowed the full weight to  
rest on her. Farean rewarded me with another push of contentment.  
My stomach rumbled. Except it wasn’t mine. I looked at her.  
"What’s  wrong  with me? "She thought at me" . My middle  feels weird. " 
The stomach rumbling sensation came again. The good feeling 
from our contact evaporated. "You’re hungry, Stupid. Don’t you 
know what that is?"  
Farean shook her head. I kept forgetting she was only a couple of 
hours old.  
I grabbed a passing servant. "We need some food. What do you 
eat, Farean?"  
It better not be princ ess. 
"Meat.  "She blasted the word into my brain. I didn’t know that you 
could squeal telepathically, but I couldn’t describe it any other way.  
"Get her some meat," I told the servant. "Surely we have roast 
leftover from yesterday."  
He scurried off to the kitchens. I wasn’t sure how the cooks would 
react to the request, but they needed to hurry. My stomach was 
twisting in knots, like I’d never eaten before. Then again, I guess that 
was literally true for Farean.  
The servant came back carrying a banquet plat ter piled high with 
cuts of mutton and beef. He stopped at the doorway. The platter 
wavered as his whole body quaked, threatening to overturn the meal.  
"Come on." I waved him closer.  
Royal Dragoneer   32 
 His eyes flicked between the food he was carrying and the dragon 
whipping  her spiked tail against the wall. I gestured at him again, but 
he came no closer.  
I marched over to him and grabbed the tray, taking a moment to 
glare in displeasure. "Father will hear about this." My voice came out 
low and guttural as if I were using the  dragon’s voice box instead of 
my own.  
The servant hurried off, no doubt to change his underclothes, and 
I returned my attention to my giant, terrifying pet.  
I lowered the platter in front of her. "How do we do this? Do I 
feed you? Can you use a fork?" I r eally hoped I didn’t have to place 
chunks of meat in her mouth. Some of our dinner guests, even the 
nobles, used their hands to eat, but I hated handling the mutton. The 
greasy feel of it made me queasy.  
"Just leave it where I can reach it." 
I backed away and she came up to the plate. Opening her jaw, a 
serpentine tongue uncoiled and wrapped around the roast. Then it all 
disappeared back into her maw and swallowed the food whole. She 
went back for another chunk and repeated the process. Forget 
handling the meat; I might get sick just watching her eat.  
After finishing the mutton, she licked at the juices on the silver 
platter, holding it down with one talon as it clanked against the stone 
floor. Satisfied, Farean settled into lethargy.  
I got up and decided to  check on my bath. I’d barely taken two 
steps when Farean reached out with a front claw and grabbed me. 
Shrieking, I fought against her grip as she brought me back in close 
to her body."  Kalia,  sleep with meeeeee. " 
Still fighting her grasp, I replied, "No,  I have my own bed to sleep 
in." I didn’t want to mention the bath, guilt creeping in as I recalled 
the instruction to clean her that had sent me running away from the 
hatchery.  
She didn’t respond. I craned my head to see her double lids closed 
and her bod y heaving in long breaths. Her claw loosened, but not 
enough for me to escape.  
33  Ash Rober ts 
 I pushed a final time against the talon holding me down before 
giving up. I tried to make myself comfortable. I had no idea how 
long dragons slept, but it looked like I was goin g to be there for a 
while.  
I must have dozed off. One moment Farean’s snores filled the 
silence of the room. The next, the room echoed with noise —most of 
it coming from my father.  
"What is this beast doing in the castle? Get it out of here. Kalia, 
what is the meaning of this? Why are you sleeping on the floor?" He 
wasn’t alone. He had his usual entourage of servants and guards, but 
mother was nowhere to be seen.  
A member of Father’s personal guard, apparently too dumb to 
have learned from last time, stepped  forward and poked the dragon 
with the butt end of his spear.  
Farean lifted her head and yawned, showing rows of teeth, causing 
the soldier to take a step back. She finally released me, and I dropped 
to the floor with a gentle thump. I arched my back and t wisted, trying 
to wake up my sore muscled and numb limbs.  
Father watched me complete my stretches in silence. I faced him, 
unsure of what to say. He eyed my wrinkled and muddy gown and 
shook his head. "It’s a good thing your mother wasn’t feeling well 
and went upstairs. She would have a fit if she saw you like this."  
I smoothed out the bodice as best I could and returned his stare.  
"Why is there a dragon in the castle?" he asked again.  
"Because she followed me home," I said, crossing my arms.  
The smack caught me unprepared. I hadn’t realized he could still 
move that fast. The sound echoed in the empty room as my cheek 
burned.  
Farean roared, her hot breath blowing against me as she lunged 
forward, but father didn’t move or retreat. Even if she was a drago n, 
she was only an infant, and he was a grown man and King of the 
realm.  
Royal Dragoneer   34 
 "I need some time alone with my daughter." He said to those who 
accompanied him, and they filtered out of the room, leaving only the 
three of us. "Do you want to try that again withou t the smart talk?"  
I rubbed my jaw and kept quiet.  
"I don’t know what you are playing at, but you need to get rid of 
that thing. Nobility can’t be Dragoneers. It’s ridiculous. So, you have 
a choice to make." He crossed his arms. "You can have a dragon, or 
you can be my daughter. You choose."  
"Choose?" I asked, incredulous. "This wasn’t my decision. I don’t 
want to be a Dragoneer. I didn’t want to go to the hatching in the 
first place. But you made me go and then sat there and lectured me 
on duty. Well, gues s what. Now I’m stuck with this duty whether you 
want me to have it or not. The dragon stays."  
"It can’t stay here," he bellowed, waving his arms about as if 
swatting at invisible flies. "I have a kingdom to rule. This is not a 
barn or a hatchery, where an imals can roam around at will." Veins on 
his neck bulged and he huffed to catch his breath after expelling so 
much hot air. Farean trumpeted again, adding to the cacophony that 
assaulted my ears.  
"She won’t leave without me," I yelled back, standing on my toes 
and trying to get in his face. It wasn’t effective. I only came up to his 
chest. " Damn  Mother  and her short genes." 
"Then you will have to leave, too." He deflated a little as he said it, 
but the anger still flickered in his eyes.  
I froze in place. " Was he kicking  me out of my home? " Because it was 
raining outside. The thunder and lightning had died down a little, but 
I could still hear the heavy drops pounding out a rhythm on our tiled 
roof. Surely, he wouldn’t send me out in it. If mother had been th ere, 
she would have stood up for me. She wouldn’t let him treat me that 
way. 
"You can’t kick me out," I said, almost a plea. "It’s raining outside. 
Mother will never forgive you."  
"Your mother lost her father to a dragon," he said, looking past 
me to Farea n. "She and I already discussed this on the way home in 
35  Ash Rober ts 
 the carriage. She cannot live with such a beast. But you have a place 
at the hatchery. Authand is expecting your return." He didn’t say 
anything else. He just turned away and left me standing there.  
I blinked to keep the tears from falling, but they came regardless. 
A fat one rolled down my cheek and onto the silk of my sleeve. It 
didn’t matter. My clothes were about to get a whole lot wetter.  

 
 
 
Authand was ex pecting me. What had he said? " She won’t get 
far. "Well, I was about to show him. And my parents. They had 
shamed me into duty, and now they were throwing me out? I would 
show them too.  
I headed for the door and stumbled out into the rainy night, 
Farean ca vorting after me.  
We became thoroughly soaked before I discovered an overhang 
large enough to keep me from getting any wetter. I shivered against 
the buffeting winds while Farean hopped from puddle to puddle in 
the street, flapping her gossamer wings in a feeble attempt to fly. 
Despite myself, I smiled. At least one of us was having fun.  
A covered pedicab approached, forcing Farean to climb onto a 
nearby portico. The drenched Elf carrier gently lowered the handles 
to the ground and opened an umbrella before  opening the door.  
Etlin stepped out and huddled under the oiled cloth as the rain 
poured off onto the servant. Foolishly, I tried to hide; cowering into 
the shadows, but Etlin saw me and dashed over, the servant hurrying 
to keep the cloth in place. Under the protection of the overhang, 
Etlin waved the poor man off, and he promptly ducked into the 
servants’ entrance.  
"What are you doing out here?" Etlin pulled off his jacket and 
wrapped it around me. It was a formal affair with little lining for 
warmth, the  one he’d worn to the hatching, which felt like a lifetime 
ago. I continued to shiver but appreciated the gesture, none the less. 
"You’re a princess, for Farr’s sake. Not some peasant drowning in 
the streets." I was getting tired of people reminding me tha t I was a 
princess. As if that had anything to do with what I’d been stuck with. 
Royal Dragoneer   38 
 Being a princess hadn’t stopped my father tossing me out like 
rubbish. His precious decorum would allow me to catch my death 
mere feet from the hearth where he was undoubtedly  bundled near.  
"My father kicked me out," I told Etlin, expecting sympathy, or 
better yet, outrage.  
He shook his head, looking down as if ashamed to look me in the 
eye. "Go inside, Kalia. The door is right there," he pointed across the 
courtyard. "Go insid e and forget about all this dragon nonsense."  
I stared at the castle’s entrance. A mere twenty feet separated me 
from what my life had been a few short hours ago. I could do it. I 
could walk through that door and forget today had ever happened. I 
could go back to pleasing my parents and Etlin by being the perfect 
girl they expected me to be.  
"You would  leave me alone? " A voice asked, Farean’s snout peeking 
over Etlin’s head, her dragon eyes wide and terrified. It wasn’t the 
question that broke my heart. Or the look. It was the feeling. I could 
feel just what she felt, and it was so much more pain and fear than 
what I’d experienced when my father had shown me the door. I was 
nearly a grown woman, trained to command others and make my 
own choices. Farean was a  child who knew nothing of the world. I 
couldn’t abandon her, even as much as she terrified me.  
"No," I shook my head at Etlin. "I can’t leave Farean."  
"Yes, you can, Kal." He used my pet name, trying to manipulate 
me, to soften me, but it only hardened my  resolve. "You have to. For 
us." 
"What do you mean, ‘for us’? How does any of this affect us? You 
love me, and I love you. Our marriage has been arranged for years."  
"I do love you, Kal. You know that," he glanced away from me, 
frowning. "But this changes everything, don’t you see? Dragoneeers 
live a rough life. They’re constantly at risk and on the move, called to 
wherever the next battle is. That’s what having a dragon means. 
That’s not the kind of life I want."  
"So, you didn’t love me, then?" I said, lif ting my chin and staring 
him down. "You loved the life you would have as the king."  
39  Ash Rober ts 
 "Kal, that’s not fair."  
"Not " fair"?" I yelled at him. "Don’t tell me about ‘not fair.’ I did 
exactly what everyone told me to, playing the dutiful daughter, and 
fiancé, an d princess, and this is what it got me. My parents throw me 
out and you —what? Break up with me?"  
"No," he shook his head, rain dripping from his dark bangs. "My 
parents want me to break it off with you, but I came here to help you 
see that you don’t have t o do this. You can go back to what you 
were. We can go back."  
"But your parents love me —" I stammered, shocked and hurt to 
my core. " Oh no, that’s right. They loved Princess  Kalia,  not Dragoneer  
Kalia. " "Had my entire life been a lie? Did no one really care about me—not for 
what I did, or my title, but for who I was inside? " 
"I like your insides.  "Farean said. She was still looming behind Etlin, 
her wings folded over her head against the rain.  
I gulped. " Not helping. " 
"They do love you," Etlin said, but it wasn’t very convincing. "As 
do I. But if you choose this life, you’re not choosing us." He glanced 
away.  
Up to that moment, I had honestly believed in the power of love 
to overcome anything. " Gods,  I was such a fool." 
"Well, okay then," I said, and Etlin’s  eyes snapped back to mine, 
full of hope. "I guess that’s it." I pushed past him, crossing to stand 
next to Farean. "I suppose I’ll see you around."  
Colonel Authand, Father, Etlin —I’d been told what to do for the 
last time. This was my life. I would play b y my rules, not theirs.  
Etlin stood in stunned silence as the rain plastered his hair to his 
forehead and his clothes to his skin. He stared at me and my dragon, 
processing this surprise —my sudden change from someone who 
patiently and quietly did what what ever was proper and expected, to 
someone who could and would defy everyone around them.  
I almost see the pieces fall into place in his mind, preparing the 
speech he would give his parents, announcing that he’d taken out the 
Royal Dragoneer   40 
 trash like a good soon. The stor y would grow as he told our friends 
of the monster I’d become.  
Etlin opened his mouth and closed it again. I watched him stand 
in the downpour. I wanted to apologize, but part of me insisted I 
hold my ground. I’d say I was sorry, but only if he did first.  
"I can’t believe you’d choose this animal over your own kind," he 
said, gesturing at Farean.  
I pulled off his useless jacket and threw it at him. "If you are an 
example of ‘my kind, I want no part of it."  
"Fine!" he said. Clenching his jaw in fury, he cros sed to the 
servant’s entrance and yanked the door open. "We are leaving," he 
called to his servant. "Now!"  
I got a glimpse of the shocked servants sharing mead over a 
blazing fire. Were they already gossiping about me and my sudden 
descent into madness? I had no doubt I would be the talk of the city 
come morning. The Princess and the dragon. It sounded like a 
morality tale mothers would warn their daughters with.  
Etlin’s servant gulped the last swig from his mug and rushed out,  
trying to get the umbrella over Etlin, but there was no point now. He 
was soaked.  
"Stop it," Etlin commanded. "Just get me home."  
The servant nodded and opened the door to the carriage. Etlin 
placed a foot on the threshold and stopped, turning back to me.  
"Goodbye, Kalia. I don’t imagine we will meet again." He took his 
seat with an audible squish, and the door snapped close behind him. 
The servant took one last wary look at Farean beside me before 
grabbing the poles of the cab and heading for the gates.  
Farean leapt forward, chasing after the cab like a chicken after a 
lizard. I wasn’t sure if it was pure instinct, or if she was trying to 
terrorize the poor man, but the driver ran faster than any I’d ever 
seen pulling a heavy cart. Thankfully, when he turn ed the corner out 
of sight, my dragon lost interest like any toddler would, and came 
wandering back.  
41  Ash Rober ts 
 "My dragon.  "Those were strange words. But I had chosen her. 
Well, first she had chosen me. But I’d come around eventually.  
The rain had mostly stopped, bu t everything was wet and 
dripping. I slid down the wall and sat on the wet cobbled ground. It 
was starting to hit me just how much I’d lost. For all my bravado and 
anger, I didn’t know what to do. I was just a lonely girl abandoned by 
everyone and charged with the task of caring for something —no 
someone —that I knew nothing about.  
How would I feed her? How would I feed myself? And we 
couldn’t sleep in the courtyard like beggars. I slapped my hands 
against the wet brick, sending a wave of hot pain shooting fr om my 
palms up my arms. "Oww."  
Farean turned her attention from the fascinating dripping of a 
water spout. " That" "hurt". 
"I wasn’t trying to hurt you. I’m sorry. I’m just —I don’t know 
what to do. I’m supposed to take care of us both now, and I don’t 
even know how to take care of me."  
"I’ll take care of you". She climbed up the stairs to my side, and 
gently butted her head against mine, rubbing me with her skull. " See? 
Good rubs." 
"That’s  very nice, "I remembered to mind -speak to her. And it was. 
But it still didn’t solve our problem. " You have to understand,  Farean.  I 
don’t know how to be a Dragoneer.  I don’t even know how to live outside  a castle 
without  servants. " "You’d  be better off if we could somehow  break  our bond and 
find you someone  else. " 
She stopped rubbing me, staring at me with her huge birdlike eyes. 
I didn’t know if dragons could cry, but she looked like she was about 
to." You told the sad man and the angry boy you wouldn’t  leave me. You are a 
good Dragoneer  for me. The best for me. It’s why I want you." 
Well, at least someone wanted me, even if it was a dragon.  
I reached out and scratched the protective ridge over her eye, 
somehow knowing she’d love it. "We’ll figure it out," I told her, as 
she rumbled a dragon purr. "Together, we’ll figur e this out."  
Royal Dragoneer   42 
 Conflicting emotions boiled inside me, and I couldn’t tell where 
mine ended and hers began. So, I just stood there petting her as I 
tried to figure out a path forward that wouldn’t be disastrous for 
both of us.  
I caught motion in my peripheral  vision; Farean and I swiveled our 
heads towards it in unison.  
A dark, hooded, figure approached us.  
Instinctively, I moved in front of Farean to protect her, though I 
had no idea how or with what.  
"Stay back," I warned, "or I’ll —" I’ll draw a blank on wha t to 
threaten you with, apparently.  
Small, calloused hands reached up and pulled the hood back just 
enough to reveal the slender, familiar, face of my chamber maid.  
"What are you doing out here?" I demanded. "I thought you were 
some kind of attacker."  
She laughed. "Attacker? At the castle? Princess Kalia, you know 
that to get to this courtyard, you have to pass three different sets of 
guards."  
Farean leaned her long sinuous neck over my shoulder to peer at 
the maid, her snout close enough to sniff at the yo ung girl’s pores. 
To her credit, the maid took only one step back.  
"You remember Farean, I’m sure," I said.  
My maid nodded mutely.  
A sudden gust of wind knocked over a nearby barrel, sending it 
rolling, and Farean was off, chasing after it. She definitely liked to 
chase things.  
With the dragon some distance away, my maid found her voice 
again. Well, it looks like you were able to get cleaned up after all."  
I glared at her and she returned an awkward smile. I wanted to be 
angry with her but the ridiculousnes s of the situation caught up to me 
and I started to laugh.  
"Yeah, I guess I did. Apparently, dragons aren’t allowed in the 
castle."  
43  Ash Rober ts 
 "That’s a dumb rule." She smiled. It faded as the realization set in 
about what that meant for my future. "What will you do now? Will 
you go back to the hatching grounds and live with the other 
Dragoneers?" Was she worried about me, or her position as my 
maid? Father would probably just assign her somewhere else. She was 
good help, and he wouldn’t waste that just because he’d b anished his 
only daughter.  
"I can’t go back there." I shook my head. "Between the way 
Farean chose me and the way I behaved afterward, I don’t dare show 
myself. But where else can I keep a dragon? I have no idea."  
"My father is the royal swineherd," she of fered. "The barns are 
plenty big enough. Farean can stay there until you find somewhere 
more suitable."  
"She wouldn’t stay there without me," I pointed out.  
"Well, dad has an empty room now that I live in the maids’ 
quarters."  
Was she making fun of me, or trying to help? Because I’m not 
sure what would be funnier to a servant than her mistress living as a 
swineherd while she remained in the comfort of the castle. Still, I was 
pretty short on options and didn’t want to offend her. She was the 
only person who  had treated me decently since this whole dragon 
thing had happened.  
"Okay. I’ll figure out a way to repay you and your family. Thank 
you—" "Oh crap. I don’t remember  her name.  " 
"It’s Lunara, your majesty. I have been cleaning your quarters for 
over a yea r now."  
"I know. I’m sorry." Had it been that long? All the maids tended 
to run together in my mind. They all wore the same uniform and all 
sort of looked the same. Still, I should know her name.  
Lunara sighed. "It’s okay. I rather expect it at this point. " 
I started to protest, but she turned and disappeared back into the 
castle.  
"Come here, you," I called to Farean.  
Royal Dragoneer   44 
 She bounded over to me and attempted to push her muzzle into 
my hand. I backed away in fear, automatically, but she just kept 
coming until sh e got what she wanted. After a lifetime of avoiding 
dragons, it was going to take some getting used to being around one 
this much. But Farean was oblivious to my fear and prejudice. Either 
that or she was good at ignoring it.  
"Hey, can that giant nose of y ours smell pigs?" I asked, and she 
raised her snout into the wind, her lips curving up in a dragon grin.  
 
 
 
Farean’s cries, both audible and mental, woke me up before dawn.  
I rubbed the sleep from my eyes and wonder ed what time it was. I 
got up from my bed, if you could call it that. Pushing open a window 
overseeing Farean’s barn, I noticed that the sun wasn’t even up yet.  
The early spring air cut through the thin nightgown Lunara had 
left behind when she’d moved to the castle. I turned to retrieve the 
matching robe, but Farean let out another distressed Ka—li—a, 
stretching my name into three long syllables. I hoped this was some 
sort of phase. The first few weeks after the hatching had been tough 
for me emotionally, But after a week straight of being forced out of 
bed in the middle of the night, two, sometimes three or even four 
times, I knew I wouldn’t last much longer before I snapped.  
Obviously, the decision to leave the hatching grounds had been a 
mistake. But I couldn’t go back now. Too much time had passed. 
They might not even be there anymore. After the hatching was over, 
the Dragoneers went somewhere else to train, and I didn’t know 
where that might be. Father would know, of course, but he’d made 
his opinion o n the matter clear.  
I made my way through the dark house, careful not to wake 
Lunara’s father. Arriving at the stable, I lifted the heavy bar on the 
door and discovered Farean rolled over onto her side with a front 
claw pulling at her skull. Her two rear l egs were trying to join the 
fight too.  
"What are you doing?" I asked, inching closer to my thrashing 
dragon.  
"It hurts, " was all she would answer.  
"Hold still, I need to check your ear."  
Royal Dragoneer   46 
 She kept pulling at it, and I had to yank her front leg away to get i t 
free. In the passing month, Farean’s features had morphed to look 
more like mine. Dark blue scales had become pale and almost 
translucent. Her ears had lengthened and formed into a point. The 
process hadn’t been easy. Every growth spurt caused odd pains and 
scales to bind if she moved wrong. I’d taken to grooming her twice 
per day and still had these late night and early morning wakeups to 
look forward to.  
I found the problem. At the juncture between the ear and skull, 
one of her scales had pulled up and folded against her hide, twisting 
the sensitive part of the ear flesh.  
I gently lifted the scale and let it fall into place. The task complete, 
Farean’s cries immediately ceased. Since I was already up, I took the 
time to check for loose or damaged scales.  "This was a lot easier 
when you were smaller."  
"You couldn’t  ride me when I was smaller ." She had me there. In the 
past week, Farean had taken to the skies. At first, it was only short 
flutters through the air, like one of the chickens when the dragon 
spooked them. From there, she had worked her way up in skill and 
strength to the point where I’d risked a short flight with her two days 
ago. 
We made it mere feet off the ground before I lost my tenuous grip 
on her neck ridge and fell into the pig’s mud. The ron, Lunara’s father 
laughed at me as I spit the foul -smelling earth from my mouth.  
"From now, I’m staying on the ground," I told him. "If Elves were 
meant to fly, we’d have wings."  
In response, he had tossed a bucket of icy water over me.  
"What was that f or?" I sputtered, wiping brown streaks from my 
face. 
"I’m not letting you inside like that." He picked up a second 
bucket and dumped it over my head.  
I stormed off; trying to squeeze the dirty water from the rough 
hemp clothing I’d been reduced to wearing.  
47  Ash Rober ts 
 The next morning, a rawhide seat bound with rope greeted me at 
the breakfast, thrown over my chair. "What’s this?"  
"Something to make sure you don’t fall off next time," Theron 
said. "I’ve seen dragons overhead wearing similar. Theirs are 
undoubtedly bett er made. But this will get you started." He didn’t 
look up from his breakfast, not wanting to draw attention to his 
kindness.  
I spooned some of the meal into a bowl and sat across from him. 
How I missed hot breakfasts of steaming eggs topped with salty 
bacon, tarts, and pastries piled high plate. Instead, the tepid corn 
gruel crunched like sand in my mouth. And yet, this man with little 
money or food, had spent part of his hard work day making me a 
dragon saddle. Not only that, he’d been feeding, housing, a nd 
clothing me for a month, which was more than my father or Etlin 
had been willing to do, two men who supposedly loved me.  
"Theron, thank you," I said, a lump in my throat that wasn’t corn 
gruel. "But I’m not sure I should fly without training. It’s dange rous."  
He put down his spoon. "You are a Dragoneer now, Your 
Majesty. Dragoneers fly."  
I took a bite of thick porridge and swallowed it down, along with 
the lump. I didn’t want to cry in front of Theron. "I’m not a 
Dragoneer. I mean, I don’t feel like one.  More like a swineherd who 
just happens to have a dragon."  
"Fate chooses us, your majesty. I’ve found that fighting it brings 
nothing but unhappiness. And you are no swineherd, I assure you. 
The pigs don’t like you. You smell too much like dragon." He 
returned to his gruel.  
I stirred my spoon around in my bowl, his words no easier to 
digest than the food. He finished his breakfast and got up, putting his 
dish in the wash basin. On his way out to the pigs, he paused at the 
door. "Besides, you’ll have to fly to reach anyone with answers." 
With that, he plunged into the daylight, leaving me to my cold gruel 
and conflicting thoughts.  
Royal Dragoneer   48 
 Unable to stomach any more of either, I grabbed the makeshift 
saddle and found Farean sunning herself in the dirt. I dropped it ne xt 
to her snout, rousing her from her slumber. "You want to try this 
again?"  
It took me a bit to figure out the proper knots, but I soon found 
myself tied to a dragon’s back. I could barely move in the rigging, but 
at least I wouldn’t fall off this time. Farean reared up onto her hind 
legs and shook her back. I lost my grip and dangled backwards in my 
saddle, but I didn’t fall. "Stop that. Are you trying to throw me?"  
"It feels weird.  I don’t like it." She pouted but returned to four legs.  
"Well, get used to it, I’m not getting thrown off again like 
yesterday." She seemed to accept this and lumbered out to the street 
where should could get a better running start. Farean galloped down 
the lane and leapt into the air. With a powerful downbeat of her 
wings, we  were airborne. She kept low at first, in case the rigging 
didn’t hold. After completing a low circle around the farm, she 
pushed us higher and higher.  
Wind whipped at my face and hair, sending it in all directions. 
Brushing it when I landed would be a cho re. But if this was what 
flying felt like, it was a small price to pay.  
Then I swallowed a bug.  
I opened my mouth to whoop as we performed acrobatic loops 
over the city and a fat horsefly went straight inside. I felt the insect 
impact the back of my throat , and I started coughing. But instead of 
dislodging the loathsome creature, the hacking pushed it further 
down until I had no other choice but to swallow. I continued 
coughing and pounded on my chest, hoping to spit it back up.  
"What’s  wrong? " Farean turne d her head my direction, but her body 
followed and she banked hard right, sending me sideways and both 
of us heading head -first towards the ground.  
"Pull —"cough"—up, pull up."  
She returned her attention to the task at hand and we leveled out.  
"Pay attentio n to where you’re going," I scolded her. "You don’t 
need to look at me when we mind speak."  
49  Ash Rober ts 
 The beating of her wings slowed, and we dipped in the sky. I 
started to stay something, but she maintained the new altitude. " I felt 
you coughing  and got worried ". 
I pushed an image of hugging her, safely on the ground, and I 
could feel her body vibrate in the guttural growl she gave when 
content.  
"I just swallowed a bug," I admitted, glad no one could see my 
ears turn red. Not that anyone could have told with all th e windburn 
I was getting. Note to self, get some kind of hat or mask for flying.  
"Lucky.  "Farean flew faster, gaining confidence. " Bugs are tasty." 
I laughed. There hadn’t been much opportunity for mirth in the 
past month and it felt good to let it out. "I ’ll try to save it for you 
next time." The thought of trying to save bugs in my mouth for my 
dragon made me laugh even harder, doubling me over the saddle 
snorting and heaving for breath.  
Farean just shook her head and made another pass over the city.  
When  I finally regained control, the sun was getting low, and I 
directed her to land, skimming just over the chicken pen just to see 
their reaction.  
The rest of the week had been like that as we learned how to fly 
and navigate the air. And fortunately, I hadn’ t eaten any more bugs.  
As beautiful as that day was, it left me with a horrible, aching 
sadness. Farean was made to fly. She was born to be a dragon and 
spend her life doing dragonish things. It came naturally to her. But I 
was holding her back. Not just h er flying with my awkward guesses at 
how to ride, but with all of it. Her cries in the night kept me reeling. I 
never knew what to do and lived in constant fear that something 
would happen to her and it would be my fault. I hadn’t been trained 
as a hatchli ng candidate or a Dragoneer. I’d been raised to follow my 
duty and rule a country. This morning, it had been as simple as 
popping her scale back into place, but as she grew bigger, it would 
only get more complicated to care for her. And as much as I’d grow n 
attached to her —really attached —I couldn’t bear the thought that 
Farean would live as a lesser dragon because of me.  

 
 
 
I was beginning to forget my old life in the castle as a princess. 
Even the fact that I tho ught of it as "my old life" was strange. It 
seemed almost like a dream and flying on Farean had always been my 
reality. But then Lunara brought my old life to the forefront again, 
delivering a letter from Colonel Authand, now at the training grounds 
to the  West.  
 
Princess  Kalia,  
As a result of your alternate lodging arrangements, you missed 
the call to come to Tulta with the others. Raising a dragon 
hatchling for the first month on your own isn’t optimum, but 
given your unusual circumstances, I allowed it. Training a flying 
dragon, however, is another matter. Collect your belongings and 
meet Lewon at the castle for further instructions. You will follow 
him back to training camp tomorrow at first light.  
Colonel Authand  
 
Looking up from the missive, I asked Lu nara, "I don’t suppose 
you want to go, do you?" She shook her head; I couldn’t blame her. 
I’d never seen the training grounds. Until a month ago, I’d barely 
been outside the castle walls. I had just started to get used to my life 
as an exiled princess. The ron made me help on the farm, but he still 
treated me like royalty. Lunara had become something of a friend, 
something I’d never really had before. And now, here was the 
Colonel ordering me around like a servant. He could have at least 
said, "Please, colle ct your belongings." Or, "You can follow him back 
if you want." That would have been polite.  
Royal Dragoneer   52 
 "Tell them I’m not going." I crumpled the letter into a ball and 
shoved it into a pocket. I crossed my arms and waited for Lunara to 
scurry off with the news.  
She didn’t move other than to match my pose. "The Dragoneers 
don’t make requests. You need to go. Lewon is already at the castle 
waiting for you."  
"But your father needs my help here." I glanced at Theron. We 
were in his open -air workshop, and he was busy repa iring a trough 
that had sprung a leak.  
He looked up from his work. "I have to fix most of what you 
‘help’ me with. If you stay, I going to start charging you rent." Having 
said his piece, he returned to the wood.  
I pursed my lips and shook my head. "Well, then. I guess I’m 
going." I thought about what happened the last time I’d been at the 
castle —the confrontation with my father and then Etlin. I did not 
want to go back there. At all. But I felt stronger now somehow —I 
had changed since then —maybe even becau se of their rejection. 
Though I hoped I wouldn’t see either of them, or my mother, I 
wasn’t afraid to anymore. But I certainly wasn’t taking Farean. "Stay 
here," I told her. "I’ll be back tonight, and we will leave to meet other 
dragons tomorrow."  
"Okay ". She rolled over in the dried mud of the pen she had co-
opted  from the pigs.  
I sighed; if we were going anywhere, I’d have to bathe her in the 
pond. I wasn’t about to introduce myself to other Dragoneers on a 
muddy beast.  
"But bring me something  to eat. All this pork is getting  boring ". 
"Don’t be rude," I scolded her, glancing at Theron, who, of 
course, couldn’t hear her. "We’re guests here."  
"Sorry. " Her voice sounded more petulant than remorseful.  
That was something I’d have to work with her. " Oh, gods. When had 
I become  my mother? " 
I turned my attention back to Lunara, who waited with her arms 
still crossed.  
53  Ash Rober ts 
 "Don’t worry too much," she said. "She’s still young. Besides, I 
lived here for fourteen years, and pork for dinner every night does 
get old."  
"She st ill needs to learn some manners. Wait! You could hear our 
conversation?"  
Lunara lowered her head, but otherwise gave no indication of 
hearing me. She turned to leave the workshop, and I followed after 
her. "How did you know what Farean said?"  
"It’s a gift." She kept her voice low, as if sharing a secret that she 
didn’t want others to hear, even though we were the only ones 
around. "I’ve always been able to hear them. I wanted to be a 
Dragoneer, but father insisted I become one of the court maids 
instea d." 
It suddenly struck me that you didn’t have to be a princess to get 
stuck in society’s expectations for you. I grabbed Lunara’s hand, and 
we both looked down, shocked. But I didn’t let go. "I’ll see what I 
can do about getting you to the next hatching. Maybe you can be one 
of my mother’s ladies in waiting and ‘accidently’ bond with a dragon 
like I did."  
She looked up into my face, "I couldn’t impose like that."  
"Come on. I’m going to need a friendly face at this training camp."  
She smiled and dropped my hand. We walked the rest of the way 
to the castle in silence as we dealt with our own thoughts about the 
future.  
Thankfully, Mother and Father were away for the day on 
diplomatic business. The guards at the gate and doors let us pass 
without comment, thoug h I could see them eyeing each other as I 
passed. Was I still the gossip of the castle after all this time? Funny, 
because I barely thought of the people here anymore.  
Lewon lounged in the receiving room with his boot -clad feet 
propped up on an antique ben ch. When we entered, he stood and 
held out his hand. Remembering the embarrassment from last time, I 
shook it. "So, we meet again," I said. "You must be one of the 
Royal Dragoneer   54 
 Colonel’s favorites to get to come retrieve me." I had meant it to be 
funny, or sarcastic, b ut I instead it just came out mean.  
He recoiled at the remark, plastering a fake smile on his face as he 
said, "Most of us don’t get to do whatever we want without 
consequence."  
"I’m sorry. I didn’t mean it like that." I tried to backtrack. "It’s 
just—you witnessed my meltdown at the hatching, and I’m not 
proud of it. It’s something I’d like to forget."  
Lunara arched an eyebrow at me, fidgeting with desire to ask 
about that. I thought the castle gossip vine would have delivered that 
story to her weeks ago, but apparently not. Most likely, Father had 
forbidden those in our party from speaking of it. " Did he know where 
I’d been for the past month?  Did he even care?" 
Lewon just kept smiling, but it seemed a little more genuine now. I 
liked how his smirk brought  out his dimples. He had nice hazel eyes 
and dirty blonde hair. He broke eye contact and looked downward 
towards the floor. At least, I hoped it was the floor. He just as well 
could have been checking out my chest. "You can try to forget," he 
said. "But no ne of the other Dragoneers are likely to let you. I mean, 
I saw it, but"  everyone " heard about it. It’s literally been used in training 
as a precautionary tale."  
My ears reddened. Great. If I did go to this training camp, I would 
be surrounded by peers who  had already judged me.  
"Have you found a place in the city to stay tonight?" I tried to 
change the subject.  
"Not yet, Your Majesty. I wanted to make sure I didn’t miss you 
when you arrived. But I’ll probably stay at the Tooth and Nail. I 
know the owner."  
I’d heard rumors about the place. It was owned by a Nightblood 
and didn’t have the best reputation.  
But I didn’t say that. I was trying to make a good second 
impression. "Please, call me Kalia," I said instead, batting my lashes. I 
was terrible at flirting , and I hadn’t really meant to. But Etlin had left 
me weeks ago, and I’d had no contact with boys my age since. "Have 
55  Ash Rober ts 
 you had anything to eat since you arrived? Flying always makes me so 
hungry."  
"No, I haven’t," he said, giving me a real, genuine grin fin ally. 
"And flying makes everyone hungry. It’s the exhilaration and the 
energy it requires to sync perfectly with your dragon."  
"Exactly!" I smiled back. Now we were getting somewhere, and it 
was so nice to talk to someone who understood what it meant to ri de 
a dragon. I turned to Lunara. "Please, take Lewon to the kitchen and 
get him something to eat. And grab something non -porky for Farean, 
if you can. Mutton perhaps? I need to get a few things from my 
room, and then I’ll be heading back to —where I’ve been  staying." I 
hoped Lunara would forgive me for not wanting to say, "the swine 
farm." "How about if I meet by the gates in the morning," I 
suggested to Lewon. That way he wouldn’t see where I’d been living 
and gain one more story of my spiral into peasantry  to tell the other 
Dragoneers.  
"Um, okay." Lewon said, looking worried. "But if you don’t show 
up, it will be my hide. My instructions were not to let you out of my 
sight once I found you."  
"I will be there with my dragon," I promised.  
"Follow me, sir." Lu nara curtsied to him and pointed in the 
direction of the kitchen. He followed eagerly, and as they crossed the 
threshold, I heard my former maid ask, "So what did the princess do 
at the hatching?"  
I shook my head and moved in the other direction. It felt b oth 
strange and familiar to be in my old home, like I was a ghost visiting 
a past life. Even the servants I passed ignored me, as if I were a 
phantom or a shadow. They probably didn’t want any liability or 
blame for me being there when my parents were away . But they 
couldn’t exactly kick me out either. At the top of the stairs, I 
detoured to the baths. There was no way I could pass up this chance 
to revel in hot water and the scented soaps that my mother always 
bought. I turned on the water, and then went t o my room. It was just 
as I’d left it, complete with the covers thrown back from when I’d 
Royal Dragoneer   56 
 been summoned downstairs to tend to Farean. Mother hadn’t even 
let the maids in? That seemed odd.  
I sat on the bed, trying to decide what I needed to pack. I 
absentmi ndedly ran my hand over the soft fleece of the bedcovers. 
The sensation was a stark contrast from the rough wool I’d been 
sleeping under. " Blanket ", I thought. " Definitely  packing  this blanket ". 
 
 
 
Lunara found me  dozing in the bath. "I finished packing for you," 
she said as she set a towel on the tub’s edge.  
"You didn’t have to do that, I was going to finish."  
She shook her head. "I did if you wanted to get back before dark."  
"Well, thank you. I was in here a litt le longer than I meant to be." 
I held up my pruney fingers.  
"I know." She smiled. "The baths are of my favorite parts of 
working in the castle. I’ll meet you in your room," she said, leaving to 
give me some privacy as I dried off.  
Back in my chamber, she h ad laid out a few clean dresses next to a 
large sack bag. I had never seen it before. When I traveled in the past, 
I’d used expensive and heavy cedar trunks to cart around our 
mountains of clothes. She must have gotten the bag from one of the 
other servant s. She was such a good maid. I’d have to put in a good 
word for her with Father —I stopped in my tracks, marveling at how 
easily and quickly I’d fallen back into the thought patterns of an over -
privileged princess. I wasn’t technically a noble anymore. Luna ra 
wasn’t my servant; she was my friend. And Father couldn’t care less 
about my recommendations. Being at the castle again was playing 
strange tricks on my mind. I needed to get out of there.  
As Lunara helped me lace up my corset, she said, "You are going 
to need pants for riding Farean. And for every day. I don’t think 
Dragoneers wear dresses much."  
"I don’t own any pants," I groaned. "All a princess is supposed to 
wear are dresses. And gods forbid I ever get them dirty."  
Royal Dragoneer   58 
 She started to speak but I held up  a hand, placing it on her 
shoulder. "I appreciate being able to wear your clothes at your 
father’s, but you are three inches taller than me and bigger in the 
chest." I looked down my dress. It felt odd to be wearing one again, 
but at least it fit without stepping on the hem or using a belt to keep 
it from sliding off. "I’m sorry, but your clothes look ridiculous on 
me." 
"Yes, they do." She grinned. Then her face grew serious "Your 
parents just arrived home. Wouldn’t you like to talk to them before 
you leav e?" 
"Um, no!" I snapped, panicking and drawing the thin rope that 
closed the bag, ready to take it and run. "Do they know I’m here?"  
"Not yet," Lunara said. "But they will soon enough."  
"I’m not sure they want to talk to me." I frowned. She grabbed my 
bag and led me down to my parents’ sitting room. As I entered, 
Father looked up from the scroll he was reading. His eyes burned 
with anger but he said nothing. Instead, he brought his gaze back 
down to what he was reading, as if ignoring me would make me cease  
to exist and ruin his perfect family.  
Mother saw me and rushed to her feet. "Oh, Kalia, we’ve missed 
you so much." She wrapped her arms around me in a bear hug that 
threatened to cut off my ability to breathe. I hugged her back, 
lowering my head to her sh oulder. I willed myself not to cry, only 
partially succeeding.  
I looked up briefly to where my father continued ignoring me. 
"One of you has at least," I murmured.  
She pulled back slightly and studied my face. "What was that?"  
"Nothing," I lied. I didn’t s ee the point in starting an argument. "I 
just miss you so much."  
"Then come home, silly." She rocked us side to side as she spoke, 
providing a cadence to the singsong quality of her statement.  
"Father won’t let me." Why did my mouth refuse to cooperate on 
Mission: Don’t Start an Argument?  
59  Ash Rober ts 
 "Of course, he will." She turned us to the side and craned her head 
towards Father’s chair. "Won’t you, dear?" In answer, he shook the 
slack from the scroll and continued reading. She seemed to take this 
as an affirmation.  "All you have to do is get rid of that pesky dragon 
and everything will go back to normal."  
I pulled away from her. "I’m trying to. But I resent the idea that I 
am only worth your love if I’m capable of getting rid something. 
Something that only happened because FATHER made me go 
somewhere I didn’t want to. This is really his fault."  
From behind the parchment, my father growled. I took a step 
back from Mother, crossing my arms over my chest. "Sometimes 
things happen and we have to deal with them. You taugh t me that 
lesson. Why does it apply to me and not to you?"  
"Don’t you take that tone of voice with me, young lady." Her eyes 
narrowed. She leaned forward with her hands on her hips. "I will not 
be sassed by my daughter."  
My arms exploded into the air. "Wel l, it’s a good thing that Farean 
keeps me from being your daughter anymore." I stomped to the door 
and slammed it closed in the most unladylike fashion I could muster. 
I couldn’t believe they were being this way. Well, if they didn’t want 
me, I could live without all of their stupid rules anyway.  
Lunara stood in the hallway with my pack. She studied her shoes 
intently. "I -" 
"Hold that thought." I held a finger up. I marched back to the 
door and pushed it open. Mother hadn’t moved since my outburst 
and Father looked up from the scroll again. "And another thing. You 
should promote Lunara. She’s a great maid. Plus, she took care  of me 
when you wouldn’t." I started pulling the door back closed but 
paused. "Not that you care about that." I slammed the door for the 
second time in as many minutes.  
Lunara’s ears were completely red. "You shouldn’t have done that, 
your majesty."  
I shoo k my head. "It’s the least I could do for all you’ve done for 
me." I looked down. "I just hope I didn’t get you fired instead."  
Royal Dragoneer   60 
 "I really do appreciate everything you and your father have done 
for me, and I promise to do what I can to get you an in with th e 
dragons."  
I didn’t think I was going to get any more conversation from her, 
so I changed the subject. "Alright, let me take my bag so you can get 
back to work, I’m sure you’re behind from having to come fetch 
me." 
She gripped the strap and then let go ov er it. She slid it off her 
shoulder and handed the pack to me. The weight surprised me, and I 
almost dropped it. I recovered and slid it onto my back. My knees 
protested the addition but I locked them into place. Lunara carried it 
so effortlessly; I was em barrassed that I was so weak compared to 
her. 
She smiled and gave me a warm hug, whispering "Thank you," in 
my ear. I wasn’t sure what for, though. It was she who had helped 
me. 
I stood in the corridor for a moment, processing the realization 
that I was le aving my home for good. This time I wasn’t being 
thrown out. I was choosing to leave. Suddenly, the doorknob across 
the hall rattled, and I barreled toward the back servants’ stairs, taking 
them two at a time, my gear on my back threatening to tumble over 
me. 
At the bottom, I glanced over my shoulder to check if I’d been 
followed. And I walked right into Lewon.  
"Oomph." Off balance and propelled by the heavy carpet bag, I 
didn’t just walk into him; we collided with a solid smack. My body 
literally plastered  itself against his, and then seemed to cling there for 
a moment before it decided to bounce off, hurling me backwards. 
Instinctively, he put his arms out and around me to catch me. Which 
worked. It worked very well indeed. I was captured by muscled 
biceps  and pinned against a well -defined chest. Unlike Etlin, Lewon 
was obviously accustomed to hard labor. I caught my breath, looking 
up at his stubbled chin. His silk shirt fell slightly open at the neck 
61  Ash Rober ts 
 right where my face was, and he smelled —he smelled like  oiled 
leather and the earthy scent of dragons.  
"I—my parents —I have to get out of here," I stammered.  
Slowly and almost reluctantly, he removed his arms from around 
me, a strange look on his face. "You’ve had a bath. And you have a 
dress on that actually fits." This time I was sure he was checking out 
my chest. "You clean up nice." He smiled, his dimples winking at me. 
"I almost didn’t recognize you."  
"Yeah, well, I am a princess," I said. "We’re raised to clean up 
nice."  
"Of course, Your Majesty," he said , his back gone stiff and his 
smile gone.  
"Oh, for Farr’s sake. Will you knock it off? I have a dragon just 
like you, remember? Everybody has made it obvious that I can’t be 
nobility and a Dragoneer. This is my new life now. I’m not above 
anybody else."  
"Fair enough," he said. "I’ll try to remember that." He didn’t relax.  
"Sorry for being curt. You surprised me. Guests usually aren’t 
allowed in this part of the castle."  
"I was exploring the castle when I heard shouting."  
I grimaced. Somebody overhearing fam ily business ranked as one 
of the few things could possibly get my parents madder than they 
already were "No, it’s fine. I was just heading back to Farean."  
"I’ll walk with you as into town," Lewon said. "If your mystery lair 
lies in the same direction, th at is." " My mystery  lair?" Oh, I really 
couldn’t let him know it was a pig farm now.  
"They are in the same direction," I said, feeling glad they were. 
"But what about your dragon?"  
"Calen will find me when he’s ready," Lewon laughed. "He got a 
whiff of a f emale dragon in heat just outside the city limits. He 
couldn’t get back there fast enough after he dropped me at the 
castle."  
I did not know how to respond to that. Farean was my 
companion, my dragon, but I hadn’t even thought about her mating 
Royal Dragoneer   62 
 someday. And  how did that work when you had a telepathic and 
emotional link with the creature mating? Or in reverse? What about 
me when I’d been pressed up against Lewon. Had Farean felt that? 
"Oh my god, this is not good." 
"So, can I accompany you?" Lewon asked,  a glint in his eyes as 
they stared into mine.  
"Yes, of course, it’s a date." I clapped my hands over my mouth, 
realizing what I’d just said. I pretended to wipe my mouth and let my 
hands fall back to my side. "Not a date. Just an evening stroll."  
I was bl ushing. I could feel the heat on my face. I could feel the 
heat other places as well. What had gotten into me?  
"You’re cute when you blush," Lewon said, reaching out to brush 
a tendril of my hair away from my pink cheek.  
My eyes grew wide. I couldn’t breat he or move a muscle. Lewon’s 
look was difficult to read. His body arched over mine, as if trying to 
protect me from the rest of the world. His eyes glinted with 
something wild yet determined, and his mouth curved into a sexy but 
still boyish smile. For a m oment, I couldn’t tell if he was happy or 
frustrated with me. I took comfort in thinking maybe he was just as 
confused as I was.  
I exhaled slowly, and I counted backwards, using all the tricks my 
etiquette tutor had taught me for calming down in a tense si tuation.  
It must have worked, because he blinked and moved a step back 
from me.  
"Shall we go?" I asked, gesturing towards the servants’ back exit.  
"Of course. Here, let me take that." He reached for my bag, but I 
pulled away.  
"I can do it. I want to learn to carry my own weight."  
"Good," he said, giving me a friendly smile. "Because as a 
Dragoneer, sometimes you have to carry your weight and your 
dragon’s. Not literally, of course. That would crush you. But you 
know what I mean."  
63  Ash Rober ts 
 And I really did. Caring fo r Farean was a burden, hard labor, and a 
challenge all rolled into one —but I was determined to do what was 
best for her. No matter what.  

 
 
 
During our evening stroll, Lewon told me about his life growing 
up on the outer edge of Darneta, almost to the back woods of Fawla. 
I just listened. I couldn’t really compare my life to his. What would I 
say? That I had lived a sheltered life in a castle and caught Farean’s 
attention by acting like a brat? He already knew that.  
The road to the Tooth led to the outskirts of town, almost to the 
farmland. My pig farm home was just a bit beyond it.  
"So, what are you doing living all the way out here?" Lewon asked. 
"Surely your father could provide better facilities for his daughter a nd 
her dragon."  
"My father wants nothing to do with me or my dragon," I said. 
"He kicked me out of the castle onto the street because I wouldn’t 
give her up."  
Lewon stopped in his tracks. "How dare he?"  
"He’s the King and a very stubborn man. That’s how. P lease, let’s 
just drop it. I really don’t want to talk about that."  
"To throw you and your dragon on the street —it’s unthinkable." 
Lewon said, not dropping it at all. "Dragons are the most precious 
resource in all of Darneta. Nay, in the entire world. Colo nel Authand 
will hear about this."  
It was getting dark, just that time before the sun completely sets 
when everything looks shadowy and weird. The brush rustled in the 
woods at the side of the road, but there was no wind. I figured it was 
probably squirrel s and just kept going. A branch snapped. A large 
one. Too big to be broken by a small animal. I stopped.  
Royal Dragoneer   66 
 Lewon took a few more steps before realizing I wasn’t moving 
and halted as well. "What’s wrong?"  
"There’s something in the woods. I think it’s followin g us.’  
"It’s probably just an ani —" A Goblin leapt from a nearby tree, 
pinning me to the ground. I shrieked and clawed at him, but he was 
heavy, his maw coming towards my face as if to take a bite. I heard a 
thump and metal sliding against metal. The Gobli n’s weight shifted, 
and he slumped next to me.  
Lewon stood over me with a dagger in his left hand, dripping 
blood. "Are you okay?"  
I nodded, fighting to get control of my breathing, which was 
coming in terrified gasps. Still, I managed to sit up.  
He seemed  to take my affirmation at face value and stepped to the 
edge of the woods to wipe his dagger in the grass before sliding it 
back in a hidden sheath in his right sleeve.  
My heart pounded, and I was still hyperventilating. As I tried to 
calm down, I realize d how ridiculous I must seem to him. I was still 
prone on the ground freaking out, while he casually cleaned his 
weapon after killing in a single motion. If I joined the Dragoneers, 
would it affect me like that? Would I kill that easily? Would it become 
my first instinct?  
Lewon held out his hand and I took it. He pulled me up and set 
me back on me feet, his arms briefly circling around my waist. Then, 
he turned his attention to the dead Goblin.  
The danger had passed, and I was on my feet, but my heart beat 
faster and faster. Why couldn’t I catch my breath? I didn’t normally 
react to danger this way. What was wrong with me? Was I having an 
attack of the heart, like the one that killed my grandmother before I 
was born?  
Lewon looked up from where he crouched, r ifling through the 
dead Goblin’s belongings.  
I staggered and fell to my knees. I could hear Farean screaming in 
my head, but that was ridiculous. We hadn’t even made it to the inn 
yet, and the farm was two miles beyond that.  
67  Ash Rober ts 
 Lewon rushed to my side, grabbi ng my shoulders and pulling me 
up. "You need to calm down."  
"I—I can’t." The world spun around me. How could I be moving 
if he was holding me upright?  
"No, you need to calm down. Tell Farean you are okay. She is 
freaking out and overloading your system wit h adrenaline. If both of 
you don’t pull it together, your heart will stop."  
Nothing like telling me that I was about to die to get me settled. "I 
can’t," I panted. "She’s not here."  
"Do it," he shouted, shaking me roughly.  
The pounding continued. This was it; my heart was going to 
explode in my chest.  
If I’d been in a better state of mind, I would have seen it coming. 
Maybe I could have even blocked it. But Lewon slapped me hard 
enough to see stars. "Tell her" he screamed.  
"Farean," I said aloud and in my m ind too. "I’m okay. We’re 
okay."  
Immediately, my heart slowed. The edge of my panic blunted, and 
my breathing slowed. I became aware of the fact that I was sitting on 
the ground in my dress, with Lewon’s arms wrapped around me and 
a dead Goblin laid out ne xt to me. For some reason, that fact didn’t 
seem to bother me as much as it had a minute ago. I didn’t want to 
pull away from Lewon’s embrace. It felt so good. But I wanted him 
to know I was okay. "I’m sorry," I said. "I don’t know what 
happened. I’ve neve r been attacked before, but I didn’t think I would 
freak out like that."  
"It wasn’t you." He looked down into my face, his mouth very 
close to mine. "It was your bond with Farean. She felt the attack and 
got scared. Don’t be surprised if she shows up any m inute. Actually, 
we should both have our dragons with us." His eyes looked off in the 
distance for a moment, his lips moving slightly as he had a 
conversation I couldn’t hear. Did I move my lips like that when I 
mind -spoke with Farean?  
Royal Dragoneer   68 
 "How can you talk to  your dragon from so far?" I asked, pulling 
out of his arms. "And Farean isn’t coming; she doesn’t know where 
we are."  
I’m coming,  Kalia.  
Well, that made me feel silly. And it quickly morphed into anger. 
"Will you tell me what’s going on?" I pushed against  Lewon’s chest.  
We untangled from each other and both stood up.  
"You really don’t know anything about dragons, do you?" He 
asked.  
"That’s not fair," I said. "Everything I know, I’ve had to teach 
myself. Or Farean has taught me." I glared at him, but he was  right. 
This time, what I didn’t know had almost killed me. Next time, it 
might harm or kill Farean. That thought was unbearable. It would be 
like rending myself in two if she died. Where was she? What if she 
got netted by Goblins on the way to me? There c ould be more in the 
woods.  
Then, I heard the "fwap" of beating dragon wings and saw Farean 
clear the tree line. She landed by the dead Goblin and sliced into the 
body with her talons, stabbing with a fury I’d not seen in her before. 
I reached out to her. " It’s dead. It can’t hurt us anymore. " She took one 
more jab at the skull, with enough force to crack it open, before 
turning her attention to me.  
"Are you okay?  What  happened?  I felt you and got scared.  I’ll kill anyone  
that hurts you. Are you okay? " 
The questions kept coming until I placed my arms around her 
neck, sending her every reassuring thought I could muster. "I’m fine. 
It was over before it began, thanks to Lewon."  
Farean swiveled her head, noticing the man next to me for the 
first time. " He smells like dragon.  Where  is his dragon? " 
I started to explain where Calen was when the beat of wings 
announced his arrival.  
Lewon’s green landed a few feet from us, and the two dragons 
squared off, appraising each other. I felt my panic returning. A green 
69  Ash Rober ts 
 just like this had killed my grandfather in front of my eyes. And now 
it looked like he wanted to kill Farean.  
Farean hissed, feeding off my fear. She extended her neck and 
arched her wings, trying to make herself appear as large as possible. 
The older dragon still had the size advantage and batted her with the 
bony edge of his wing.  
I felt the hit as if it were to my own face. It didn’t particularly hurt, 
more like a scolding than an attack. Farean snorted. " Don’t  patronize  
me. If you are going to attack,  do so properly ". 
"No, wait!" I ran to intercept them, throwing myself between the 
two creatures. Farean’s nose pushed against my back. I reached 
behind me to shove her away. Of course, my measly human efforts 
had no effect on a beast so much larger than myself . "What are you 
doing? He’s twice your size and trained. You wouldn’t stand a 
chance."  
"I could take him". She huffed.  
Calen’s eyes bored into me.  
Farean wrapped a claw around me and drew me back from the 
green dragon. " He’s trying to decide  whether  you’re  worth the trouble  to kill so 
he can get to me." 
Calen suddenly tilted his head towards Lewon and dropped his 
shoulders. He glowered at us, but didn’t advance otherwise.  
"No one is attacking anyone," Lewon said, taking a step towards 
us. He looked at his d ragon. "They are our allies."  
Lewon turned towards Farean and me, his hands out in a gesture 
of peace. "We all have a lot of residual tension right now from the 
attack. It’s messing with our emotions. Let’s all calm down. Farean, I 
know you can’t back down  without losing face. Neither can Calen. 
So, on the count of three, everyone will back down together. Nobody 
loses." He swiveled his head between my dragon and his. He raised 
his hands up above his shoulders. "Okay? One. Two. Three. Now." 
He dropped his ha nds and the two beasts returned to their normal 
postures.  
Royal Dragoneer   70 
 "How did you do that? Farean wouldn’t listen to me." " I couldn’t  
control  her. I had always  been able to control  her before,  but not this time". She 
wasn’t a baby anymore. She was developing a mind of her own.  
He shrugged. "Dragons are pack animals, always sorting each 
other for dominance. When you put a bunch of them together, you 
have to learn how to defuse situations before they turn into attacks. 
But don’t worry. You’ll learn it quick enough."  
My eyes settled on the body in the path. He followed my gaze. 
"These woods aren’t safe anymore. You’ll need something to defend 
yourself with."  
Lewon crouched over the Goblin and searched through its 
clothing. He found a crooked dagger in a thigh sheath and pulled 
them both off. "It’s Goblin steel, worthless in most situations, but it’s 
better than nothing. At the training grounds, we can get you outfitted 
with quality gear."  
I examined the blade and sheath. I looked at my waist, trying to 
figure out a way to  attach it. I certainly wasn’t going to reach inside 
my skirt for a weapon.  
Lewon realized my dilemma and removed the belt from the 
Goblin’s body. I shrank back from the grimy leather. He stared at 
me, but I wouldn’t touch it.  
"Fine," he said and removed h is own belt. He strung the sheath 
through the braided cords and handed it to me, then wrapped the 
Goblin belt around his own waist. I tied the belt over my skirts as he 
nodded. "Keep that handy. Even when you get home. You never 
know when another greyskin will show up.  
I pursed my lips at the slur. I knew what it meant, but nobody had 
ever been crude enough to use in in front of me.  
If Lewon saw my discomfort at his words, he didn’t show it. 
Instead, he turned to his dragon. "Get rid of the body." The green  
picked up what was left of the Goblin after Farean’s evisceration and 
went airborne. With a flick of his wrist, the dragon tossed it into the 
woods for scavengers to take care of and landed, this time well clear 
of Farean.  
71  Ash Rober ts 
 Lewon looked at the sun. "Since the dragons are here, we might as 
well fly. It will be safer."  
I looked at Farean’s back. "I don’t have my harness with me."  
He chewed on his lower lip. "Okay, we’ll walk. But I’m not leaving 
your side until you are safely home. I was charged to bring you back 
to Tulta and that’s what I intend to do. Besides, I can’t afford to lose 
someone as important as you."  
I looked down, unable to meet his eye. He meant because I was a 
princess, of course. That had to be. He couldn’t mean that I was 
important to him pe rsonally, could he?  
After a long dusty, mostly silent walk, with our dragons flying 
overhead to scan the woods around us, we were finally at Theron’s. 
Lewon walked in with me and met Theron, them shaking hands like 
old friends. Lewon explained about the at tack on the road, and 
Theron offered him and Calen a place in one of the barns for the 
night. After we’d all had some food and drink, Lewon headed for the 
door.  
I followed him out, to make sure Farean was settled, but then I 
could hear her snoring from her  stable. I was surprised when Lewon 
paused on the porch and took my hands in his. "You’ve certainly 
made my day interesting. I’m going to enjoy flying with you 
tomorrow." He smiled, looking down at me.  
I leaned forward, willing him to close the gap between  us. He saw 
the motion and pulled back. "Get some sleep. We’ll leave just after 
dawn." He drew my hand to his mouth and kissed it, confusing me 
even more, before loping into the dark towards the barn.  
I stood for a few moments, under the moonlight, only to  see 
Farean lumbering towards me.  
"I got a quick nap. "She said, coming up and rubbing my face with 
her muzzle" . Now,  I will stand watch". 
"Don’t be silly. You need more sleep. You have the hard part 
tomorrow."  
"Fine". She coiled her body in front of the d oor, resting her head 
on her front legs. " I will sleep here then. Nothing  will get past me". 
Royal Dragoneer   72 
 I smiled and patted her head. "Goodnight." I closed the door 
behind me and leaned against it, trying to keep my thoughts still until 
I heard her snoring again.  
There it was —halfway between a growl and a purr —the most 
endearing sound I’d ever heard.  
I pressed my back against the hard door, fighting tears. This day 
had reminded me of the other side of having a dragon —the 
dangerous and wild side that had killed my gran dfather. That had 
been easy to forget while Farean was smaller and cuter, and we lived 
on a pig farm.  
I had often wondered why my grandfather had run out to 
confront a huge beast wielding only a sword. I had never asked my 
mother or father. I knew, even as  a small child, it was not a question 
I was allowed to voice. But, in my own mind, I’d often thought it had 
been foolish of him. Everyone knew a man couldn’t defeat a dragon. 
Only a dragon could match a dragon.  
And today, my little dragon had faced off aga inst a full -grown 
green, and all that terror had come rushing back. That was when I 
realized I was being as foolish as my grandpa. I had vastly 
overestimated my ability to handle a dragon.  
Lewon’s words came rushing back to me —You really don’t know 
anythin g about dragons,  do you?"  " 
He was right. I hadn’t known my fear would scare Farean so 
much, or that her response could actually kill me. I hadn’t known I 
could call her from far away, or that she could hone in on my 
location. And I had absolutely no idea how dragons related to other 
dragons, or how Dragoneers related to one another. Which had all 
lead me to make a decision on our silent march home, though I had 
fought not to think of it until now. My heart ached, but I also knew it 
was the right thing to d o for Farean. Because I loved her.  
I ran my hand over the rough grain of the door separating us and 
swallowed my sobs.  
I wouldn’t be getting much in the way of sleep tonight.  
 
 
 
They’re  here. Kalia,  wake up. They’re  here"." 
I opened my eyes, squinting into the rising sun streaming through 
my window. A cool breeze carried the scent of the caked mud and 
excrement from the stable. I wasn’t going to miss that part of my 
morning wakeup routine. Rubbing my eyes, I searched  for the clothes 
I’d dropped on the floor the night before. My hair was a mess, but it 
would get much worse than that flying, so instead of fixing it, I 
stumbled out to the kitchen. Lewon sat at the table chatting with 
Theron. I ignored them and went for t he pot of brewed stimleaf. I 
chugged the beverage and let out the most unladylike belch. For 
dignity’s sake, they pretended not to hear me.  
Lewon stood. "Are you ready to go?"  
"Almost."  I hugged Theron. "Thank you for everything. I couldn’t 
have made it through this month without you."  
He wrapped his arms around me. "You would have been fine. 
You’re more resilient than you think."  
I sniffed, fighting to keep the tears from falling. "Once  I’m on 
better terms with my father, I’ll —" 
"I already have everything I could want from your father. Just 
don’t be a stranger. Visit me when you’re at the capital."  
I nodded, backing away from him. "I will."  
Outside, Farean paced in front of the house, tu rning at every 
sound coming from the woods. " Can we go now? Goblins  could attack  any 
moment ". 
I laughed.  
Royal Dragoneer   74 
 Lewon leaned in and whispered, "Don’t tell her we’ll be traveling 
closer to the Goblin encampments." The laugh died on my lips. I 
didn’t like the idea of heading towards danger, but I at least I’d be 
surrounded by dozens of dragons and trained Dragoneers.  
I lashed my bag to Farean’s forepaw and assembled my makeshift 
harness. Lewon arched an eyebrow at it but said nothing. Calen 
snorted and shook his hea d. I ignored them. If they wanted me to 
have a proper harness, they should have brought one. Tightening the 
last knot securing me to Farean’s back, I leaned in close. " Let’s show 
them what we can do". 
Without warning, she reared and leapt into the sky, bea ting her 
wings as we flew higher and higher. Looking back, I saw Lewon 
finish fastening his harness and take off after us. Aided by Calen’s 
larger size, they caught up quickly. Farean flapped harder, taking us 
closer to the clouds. Calen banked and then ro se above us. He 
coasted overhead, pushing us lower. "Save your energy," Lewon 
shouted. "We have a lot of flying to do today."  
I stuck out my tongue, but we descended to a more comfortable 
altitude. We flew in silence with Lewon and his dragon a few feet to  
our left. Remembering the bug incident from the week before, I 
fished out my scarf from a pocket on my gingham dress and wrapped 
it around my face. The wind still stung my eyes and made them 
water. I was about to add goggles to my mental list of things I 
needed, and then remembered I wouldn’t be needing them.  
"What  are Googles? " Farean asked. " Do I need them? " 
"Not Googles.  Goggles.  "I corrected her, thankful for the laugh to 
cover my sudden sadness."  And no, you don’t need them. That’s  what your 
second  eyelids are for." 
We fell behind the other dragon. At first, it was barely noticeable, 
but as the day progressed, Lewon got further and further ahead of us, 
until I could barely see the spade -shaped flutter of Calen’s tail.  
Lewon noticed this as well, and th ey began to descend, waving us 
down as they went.  
75  Ash Rober ts 
 Farean landed next to them in a clearing by a stream. After 
extracting myself from the harness, she lumbered over and started 
lapping up water.  
"We will rest for an hour and then start again." Lewon pulled a 
drinking flask out of his coat and filled it upstream from the dragons. 
"We made good time. We should only need to stop three or four 
more times before we make it to the training grounds." He pulled 
some strips of jerky out of another pocket and offered me one.  
Taking it, I glanced at our companions as the green found a spot 
free of shadows and spread out in it, soaking up the sun like a giant 
cat. "What about them?" I held up my jerky.  
Lewon shook his head. "If they eat, they’ll get tired and not fly as 
well. Under extreme conditions, a dragon can go three days without 
any food and still fly." He looked in my eyes, and then away, a little 
smile on his face.  
I nodded, unsure what to say. I felt like I was being flirted with, 
but it was awkward. Lewon didn’ t seem awed by my status, but then I 
had no idea what my status was anymore. How did Dragoneers flirt? 
I’d never really been courted or wooed. I’d been matched with Etlin 
when I was still a toddler. Both of us always assumed we’d be 
together, and it had be en comfortable and settled. And boring. How 
many girlfriends had Lewon had? Maybe he had one now. The 
thought was disturbing. How could I find out? I couldn’t just ask.  
Farean found her own sunny spot and rolled onto her side, 
exposing her belly to the ray s. I climbed up to her forepaw and rested 
against her. Together we dozed in the light as if we hadn’t a care in 
the world. Too soon, Lewon motioned for us to get ready. Up in the 
sky, we continued east, the wind reducing conversation to only the 
most neces sary orders.  
"What  do you think of Lewon? " I asked Farean.  
"I don’t trust him or his big green dragon. " "The man smells  off." Her tail 
flicked against the wind. Calen turned his head towards us briefly, but 
then returned his attention to flying. Had he hea rd that?  
Royal Dragoneer   76 
 "Really? " I asked her. " I thought  he smelled  good." "Besides,  he’s been nicer 
to me than anyone  outside  of Theron’s  family  since you hatched. " 
She swooped to catch a swallow too slow to avoid us. We flew 
with the poor creature in her talons for a few seconds before she 
released it. " I’m just practicing ". I felt her annoyance through our bond. 
"And if you don’t want my opinion,  don’t ask for it". 
"That was a good catch", I admitted. But I’d hurt her feelings and 
now she wanted to pretend I wasn’t ti ed to her back hundreds of feet 
in the air.  
She still wasn’t speaking to me the next time we landed. I 
unhooked myself from the harness and we headed in opposite 
directions.  
"What’s wrong?" Lewon fell in lockstep with me as we headed 
away from the river we  were still following.  
"Just a difference of opinion." I wasn’t about to tell him that we 
had argued about him. "But now she’s angry and not speaking to 
me." 
He laughed. "There isn’t a creature in the world as stubborn as a 
dragon. Give her time, she’ll co me around. But while we’re on the 
ground and she won’t be distracting you, I could teach you some 
woodcraft. That is unless you already know it."  
"No, it never came up while my mother was making sure I knew 
how to walk around with a board on my head." I mi med holding a 
flat object above me while keeping my head perfectly still, pacing a 
few steps. He laughed, and I pretended to drop my board and fell to 
the leafy ground after it. I grinned from below him and he plopped 
down beside me. "Apparently, it’s a vi tal skill in the court."  
I tried to pay attention as he instructed me in the best way to start 
a fire, but mostly I daydreamed about whether I could convince my 
parents to enter into talks with his. Or, well, whoever his guardian 
was. Hopefully, it was som ebody at least moderately important that 
could offer something to the King in return for my hand. It was silly 
girl stuff. I knew that. But I was a still a girl.  
77  Ash Rober ts 
 I decided that the Authand must be his guardian. That would be 
perfect. As leader of the Drago neers, Authand could just about name 
his terms. I’d seen him threaten to quit the service of the Elves if 
Father didn’t supply more food for the dragons. I had to be worth 
more than some food. Authand would have my father in a corner 
and my marriage to Lew on would be secured.  
I was so caught up in my ruminations that I didn’t hear him call 
my name. He clapped his hands next to my ear, breaking me free of 
my reverie. "Have you been paying attention at all?" He stood and 
held out a hand.  
"Huh?" I shook my hea d to clear the cobwebs. "Of course. I just 
got a little distracted towards the end." I took the hand, expecting 
him to pull me up, but he just stood there with his arm extended. 
Well, Father would at least insist that Lewon take lessons with my 
grace tutor . I pulled myself up, using his otherwise useless arm as 
support.  
He turned his back on me, heading to the waiting dragons. "Get in 
your harness. We should have left a while ago."  
I raced to catch up on him, taking care to avoid the exposed tree 
roots that  threatened to trip me on the ill -defined path. The gurgling 
water of the nearby stream reminded me that I hadn’t been able to 
relieve myself for hours. "How long till we get there?"  
"Still half a day’s flight. Why?"  
I couldn’t bring myself to say it. I su bconsciously looked down at 
my lap. He caught the motion and smirked. "You’ll have to go in the 
woods."  
"What? No, I can’t." My hands dropped to cover myself, although 
I was no more exposed than I had been a minute ago.  
"Suit yourself," he shrugged, leavin g me wondering why he was 
suddenly so rude. If that wasn’t bad enough, he and Calen took off, 
leaving me to finish tying myself in so Farean and I had to try to 
catch up. At our next landing, I was so annoyed, I stayed tied to 
Farean’s back the entire hour  on the ground.  
Royal Dragoneer   78 
 We continued east, as the sun sank towards the horizon, turning 
the sky a mixture of reds and oranges. Behind us, the sky dipped into 
violet and the dragon moon glowed silver as it began its nightly chase 
of the ball of fire. The sun disapp eared below the horizon and dots 
of fire became visible on the ground below, signaling inhabitants who 
eschewed the safety of greater numbers in towns and villages. Ahead 
of us, a ring of fires marked our destination, as the watch lit the night 
against the  Goblins that hunted here.  
We landed in a field where Colonel Authand was waiting. He held 
out his good hand to steady me as I climbed off Farean. "Welcome, 
Princess Kalia." He bowed, still clutching my hand.  
"No time. Bathroom." I ran off in a random dire ction, hoping one 
would be clearly labelled. Near the wall to my left, a lonely wooden 
stall bore the glyph for privacy. I gulped, as I headed towards it. A pit 
toilet was little better than going in the woods, but I was out of time 
and options.  
When came back out, the Colonel and Lewon were nowhere to be 
seen and neither were the dragons. " Farean?  "I called, beginning to 
panic.  
"Finally,  not pork"! She squealed in my head. Well, at least she was 
being taken care of. I wasn’t sure where I was supposed to go, but a 
red-haired girl approached me, holding out a hand. I was getting used 
to the manners of commoners and shook it. "I’m Kalia," I added.  
"I know," she said. "I’m Esgeril. Colonel Authand asked me to 
show you to the girls’ dorm. You’re to report to h im in the morning."  
She started walking and I followed, trying to examine the buildings 
in the dim light. The complex was huge, putting the castle to shame, 
but most of the space was empty, segregated into large grassy lots like 
the one we were crossing. L ow stone buildings dotted the landscape 
and the lake I’d spied from the air seemed to make up the Western 
border.  
We approached a complex made up of stables for the dragons. 
The scent of straw and sweat permeated the building, which 
alternated between covered and open -air pavilions. To either side sat 
79  Ash Rober ts 
 two story buildings with rows of empty windows. Esgeril led me to 
the closest one. "All of the female Dragoneers stay here," she 
explained. "The guys are on the other side. And there’s a watch tower 
over the stables," she pointed to a spindle in the center of the 
compound, "to make sure we don’t mix. Violators get latrine  duty."  
I made a face. "At least that was one thing I won’t have to worry 
about. Princesses don’t sneak in the middle of the night."  
She chuckled as she led me up to an empty room. "This one is 
yours. I’m down the hall on the right." She pointed to a door by the 
stairs. She promised to lead me to the Colonel’s office in the morning 
and, with that, I was alone for the first time since I’d stormed out of 
the hatching grounds a lifetime ago. I found my belongings sitting on 
a small table by a cot. It was bare and uncomfortable compared to 
my quarters in the castle, but a month of sleeping in Lunara’s bed 
made it more than tolerable.  

 
 
 
"This place is so fun. There  are so many dragons  here". Farean’s voice 
woke me up, insanely early, as usual. My window showed a view of 
inky purple over the lake, only the brightest morning stars still visible.  
"I knew you would  like it. But let me sleep. I don’t need to be up until dawn". 
I rolled over and pulled my head under the straw  stuffed pillow. I 
could feel her excitement and even caught the odd scent as she 
introduced herself to the rousing dragons. I pushed the sensations 
away and focused on returning to sleep, but a knock ended that futile 
hope. Still dressed in yesterday’s cl othes, I opened the door to find 
Esgeril waiting for me, her long braided hair still damp. With 
squinted eyes, I told her, "I thought you said morning. This is still 
night."  
She laughed. "We count dawn by the tower. The sun hit it half an 
hour ago."  
"Fine,  I’ll get ready." I grunted and shut the door in her face. I 
spied a bowl of water that had been set out for me the night before 
and did my best to wash the travel grime from my face and hands. I 
had no way of cleaning my hair, so I tied it up into a bun b efore 
changing into fresh clothes. Opening the door, I found Esgeril 
waiting in the same spot I’d left her. Girls in various stages of getting 
dressed chatted in the halls but when I stepped out, they all fell silent. 
I felt every pair of eyes on me as we left. I hoped they didn’t think 
they were intimidating me. Being stared at had pretty much been my 
life-long job description.  
Overhead, dragons flew in formations. "Why are they different?"  
"Huh?" Esgeril stopped.  
Royal Dragoneer   82 
 I pointed up. "The formations. Each color group is flying 
differently from the rest. Wouldn’t it look better if they all flew the 
same way?"  
She shook her head. "Formations are designed to take advantage 
of each dragon’s strength. Oranges are the biggest and strongest. And 
the most stubborn, just like their riders. Blues like your Farean are 
the fastest. They can be quick to temper as well." I recalled how 
willing Farean had been to eat half the nobility of Darneta at the 
hatching and nodded.  
Esgeril continued. "Greens are the most agile, sometimes  of 
morals as well as body. They are the best at getting in and out of a 
tight spot without getting caught." She paused a second and her chest 
swelled. "But Reds are the most steadfast creatures in all the land. 
Only they can fly steady enough for an arche r." 
"You have a Red dragon, I’m guessing?"  
"Yeah. Baran. He’s the best dragon ever. Every Dragoneer is 
going to say that, but in my case, it’s true. He understands me better 
than anyone."  
The Colonel’s office was small compared to the dragon sized 
building s of the rest of the camp. However, it did have an entire wall 
missing, covered over with a huge sheet of canvas. Esgeril saw me 
staring at it as we approached. "It rolls up to allow Korth to join in 
meetings." I tried to imagine a dragon sitting in on one  of my father’s 
conferences, stuffed into one of the hard wooden chairs and sipping 
tea from Mother’s delicate, human -made china.  
I giggled and Esgeril shot me a puzzled look. I shook my head and 
the door to the office opened at our arrival. An aide looked  at us and 
said, "Ah, Princess Kalia. Please, come in. The Colonel is expecting 
you." He turned his attention to Esgeril. "You can go to breakfast 
now. Somebody else will retrieve her when they are done."  
Esgeril gave the aide a nod and left. I followed hi m inside. He 
pointed to a bench in the antechamber and knocked on the door to 
the Colonel’s office. I sat as he went inside and spoke to the Elf in 
83  Ash Rober ts 
 charge. A moment later, he returned and waved me in. I stepped 
inside the office, and he shut the door behin d me.  
"You’re late." The Colonel didn’t wait for me to sit.  
I settled into the small wooden stool on the opposite side of his 
desk. "I’m sorry, sir. I didn’t know you used the tower to tell time 
here." I looked down, folding my hands in my lap as I balance d on 
the tripod structure.  
"No, I mean you’re two days late." He shook his head. "The other 
new Dragoneers arrived from the hatchery two days ago. That makes 
you two days behind learning the basics. You’ll have to make it up on 
your own time. Meanwhile, yo u will have chores like anybody else. 
Don’t expect any special treatment here. The King’s daughter isn’t 
any different from a shopkeeper’s son as far as Dragoneers are 
concerned."  
"With all due respect, sir." I straightened and looked him in the 
eye. "I do n’t plan to be here long. I came to find a new rider for 
Farean. Once that is settled, I’ll head back to the capital. I don’t 
know if I’ll be welcome at the castle, but I’ve made some friends 
there and can find work."  
"What are you talking about?" He title d his head, giving me a look 
as if I’d said something preposterous; like Goblins were my friends. 
Well, I had a dragon in my head and we made peace with my 
grandfather’s killers. Maybe that idea wasn’t too far out either.  
"I’m talking about the fact that I  know nothing about dragons, 
and Farean deserves better than that. She needs a rider that can turn 
her into the greatest blue the Dragoneers have ever seen. Surely, 
there was someone at the hatching that wasn’t chosen but who has 
been trained up for this. Of course, I’d like to meet them first, to see 
if they’re a good fit. Farean can’t just go to anyone."  
His face contorted into a frown and then a grimace as I finished 
my speech. Then for moment, we just sat, staring at each other.  
"What you are asking is impossible," he said.  
"Impossible? You mean there is nobody else available without a 
dragon? I might know someone already," I said, thinking of my maid.  
Royal Dragoneer   84 
 "I mean that the bond between you and your dragon is 
unbreakable. You cannot leave her because you’re s cared, or you 
want a more manageable pet. Frankly, even suggesting such a thing is 
the most sickening thing I’ve ever heard, and I was reading a report 
on Goblin atrocities before you arrived." He reached for a scroll on 
his desk and flung it at me.  
I duck ed, but the wooden spindle struck my arm. "Oww." I 
rubbed the red mark. I stood up, knocking over the stool. I bent to 
pick it up but stopped, kicking it away from me instead. "Why are 
you so angry with me?" I demanded, glaring at him.  
"Angry?" He laughed.  "This isn’t angry? This barely rates as 
annoyed on my scale. This has nothing to do with you, Princess." He 
spat the word, making it sound more like a slur than a title worthy of 
respect. "This is about your dragon. You are a pathetic excuse for an 
Elf an d Farean is stuck with you. Those are the facts. Every 
Dragoneer who has ever flown knows they aren’t worthy of their 
mount. It humbles the most confident man and makes him feel the 
fool to be owned by a beast so grand. I dare say it even makes a 
Princess doubt her useless, pompous upbringing. But that doesn’t 
mean you can quit. Quite the opposite."  
"I’m not trying to be falsely humble here, I assure you," I argued. 
"Look at me. Do you really think I have any business caring for one 
of our most precious mil itary assets? I don’t know what I’m doing."  
"No, you don’t. And that’s mostly your fault. You ran off like a 
spoiled little girl instead of staying at the hatching grounds where 
others were available to mentor you." He struck the desk with his 
hook. That s ection of the wood was filled with pock marks from 
similar attacks. He used the wedged in claw to pull himself up, 
returning the advantage of height to him. "I’m not saying you aren’t a 
terrible choice for a Dragoneer. You are. But if you leave that dragon , 
you will break her heart. And I don’t mean in a figurative, lovesick 
teenager way. The dragon bond is the strongest magic left in the 
world. If Farean believes, for one second, that you’ve truly rejected 
her, her giant reptilian heart will stop beating."  
85  Ash Rober ts 
 "No—I would never want that. Isn’t there another way?" I 
croaked, feeling my own heart in my throat.  
"There is not. And, so help me, if you do anything to mistreat that 
dragon, you’ll be spending a lifetime in the Dragon Caves. And don’t 
think your father  could overrule Dragoneer justice. The caves are 
prison to criminal Dragoneers and dragons from all seven kingdoms. 
Now get out of here before I decide to send you there just for being 
an idiot."  
I stood, openmouthed, trying to process what he’d told me. 
Authand picked up the ink blotter and threw it at my feet. I jumped, 
but the blue ink still splattered on the pigskin boots that Theron had 
given me. He looked for something else to throw, and I got the 
picture, racing for the door. I didn’t acknowledge the  aide, even as he 
held the outer door for me so I could escape his boss.  
Lewon sat on a rock wall a few feet from the office, whittling a 
stick with the dagger he’d used to kill the Goblin a few days ago. He 
saw me and stood. I cut away from him, wanting n othing more than 
to go back to my quarters and cry in privacy.  
He sidestepped and cut me off, so I ran straight into his body. 
Again. We were beginning to make a habit of that. Lewon wrapped 
his arms around me, gripping me tightly so that I couldn’t escape . 
"Leave me alone." I choked back a sob.  
"Hey, don’t worry about him. He’s like that with everybody."  
"I doubt that," I said, struggling against Lewon’s hold. My eyes 
were already wet and full of unshed tears, but I couldn’t hold them 
back much longer.  
"No, really. Did you see all the marks on his desk? He doesn’t 
need to stand up that way. He does it for affect to scare the newbies.  
I sniffed. "Are you sure?"  
"Yeah." He grinned at me, his dimples showing, and my heart 
lifted a little. Maybe this wouldn’t b e so bad —getting trained by 
Lewon. Deciding to give up Farean had been the hardest decision I 
had ever made. Harder than leaving home or breaking up with Etlin. 
And now the Colonel was saying I couldn’t —that it was impossible. 
Royal Dragoneer   86 
 Wasn’t that a good thing? I h ad built myself up for the inevitable 
heartbreak of it for so long; I didn’t even know how to feel anymore. 
Fear? Hope? Relief?  
Lewon felt me relax and loosened his arms some, adding, "But 
he’s still going to give you extra duty for missing an entire month  at 
the hatching grounds and two days of training. Make no mistake. 
When the Colonel says something, he means it. You’re going to be so 
sore."  
"Great! " How much extra work would make up for saying "the 
most sickening" thing the Colonel had ever heard?  
"Hey , don’t worry," Lewon said. "When you’re not in classes or 
doing extra chores, I could help train you to get you caught up."  
"Yeah, okay." I nodded. "Let’s do it."  
"You mean right now?" he laughed, surprised at my sudden 
determination. "How about this?  We have free time after dinner. 
There’s a beach on the north shore of the lake. Meet me there an 
hour after we eat, and I’ll get you up to speed."  
I smiled. Alone on a beach as the sun was setting? That was the 
best news I’d heard all month. "But dinner i s so far away," I moaned. 
"I haven’t even eaten breakfast yet."  
"Well, let’s take care of that," he said, guiding me to the mess hall. 
When we arrived, he waved me inside. "I’ve already eaten and need 
to get back to my classes. See you after lunch." I star ted inside. "Oh, 
and Kalia?"  
I stopped. "Yes?"  
"Get yourself a proper set of clothes. You won’t be able to fight in 
a dress. And you looked pretty ridiculous flying in it yesterday. Let’s 
just say there was a reason I wouldn’t let you fly ahead of me." He 
grinned and left. I stood at the door, red from the tips of my ears 
down to my toes. I entered the mess, taking a moment for my eyes to 
adjust to the dim light. Outside, three bells tolled, their tone rising 
then falling. The Dragoneers around the room sto pped talking at 
once, creating an odd quiet punctuated only by the chime.  
87  Ash Rober ts 
 Then, they rose and made for the exits. Several pushed past me, as 
if I wasn’t there. After being knocked repeatedly, I gave up expecting 
common decency from them and pressed myself against the wall.  
Seconds later, the room was empty save for a servant who pushed 
a cart, piling the abandoned plates and bowls as she passed each 
table. I made my way towards a door marked "Enter" in hopes of 
finding my breakfast.  
"What are you still doin g here, girl?" The servant pushed the cart 
in front of me, blocking my progress. "Capture the flag is about to 
start."  
"I don’t care about a game. I’m hungry."  
"Breakfast is over. Now go." She turned her back to me and 
resumed her task. I sighed and left. If I couldn’t get a meal, I might as 
well find out about this game everyone was so eager for.  
Out on the parade field, dragons and their riders assembled 
according to their colors. I finally found Esgeril among a group of 
other Red riders. Her fiery hair a midst a sea of red dragon hides 
hadn’t exactly made her conspicuous.  
The dragons eyed me. I came a little too close to one, and it 
emitted a low growl. I shrank away from it. "What’s going on?"  
Esgeril saw me and pulled me away from the throng. "What are 
you doing here? You and Farean should be with the Blues. Find the 
other Blue riders and talk to Selkerdrim. He’ll explain the rules to 
you. Now go. The others think you’re here spying for your team." 
She gave me a small push and disappeared back into the cr owd.  
The Blues were easy to find. Each of the four Colors occupied a 
different quadrant of the field and kept well apart from each other. 
Farean was already there, pacing back and forth, bragging about her 
one short visit to the castle while the others ign ored her and went 
about their business.  
She saw me and perked up. " Kalia.  You’re  here! Are we going to play 
too?" 
"It looks that way. But I need to find Selkerdrim."  
Royal Dragoneer   88 
 "Someone looking for me?" The crowd parted, revealing a tall boy 
wearing a number three pi nned to his shirt. Tufts of dark brown hair 
stuck out from under a leather helmet. Selkerdrim flashed a smile as 
he approached. He looked near my age, and held himself in a manner 
that commanded respect. I felt a little self -conscious standing near 
him. He  had the bearing Father had tried to teach me, but I had been 
as bad at it as Mother’s lady -like grace.  
"Oh, you." His smile faded. He pointed to a group in mismatched 
gear looking a little lost. "Go over with the other first years. I’ll be 
there in a minu te. I don’t want to have to explain the rules more than 
once."Most of the other first year Dragoneers were my age, but there 
were a few older. They all quieted when I approached. "Hi." I waved.  
In return, they just stared. It was a tad rude, but I understo od that 
commoners had little chance to learn proper manners.  
Two riders broke into a fight, grappling each other to the ground. 
I stopped, unsure if I should break it up or if I even could. Before I 
could make up my mind, one of the boys pinned the other t o the 
ground. He stood above him for a second, then reached down and 
pulled him back to his feet.  
Selkerdrim approached our group with a golden banner tucked 
under his arm. "This is our flag." He unrolled it to reveal a vividly 
embroidered blue dragon span ning the length. "The object of 
Capture the Flag is to protect our flag and capture one belonging to 
the enemy. If another dragon catches you, they get ten points. Catch 
a flag and bring it back here for fifty points. The first team to a 
hundred wins. You lot will guard the flag. When the horn blows, 
follow me. Saddle up."  
The others climbed on top of their beasts and hooked into their 
harnesses. Mine was still in my room. Of course, Selkerdrim noticed 
me just standing there. "You don’t get a special invita tion. I expect 
my orders to be followed."  
"I didn’t bring my harness." I explained. "No one told me —" 
"You’re absolutely useless." From his dragon, Selkerdrim towered 
over me. "Look, the game is about to start. When it does, run to the 
89  Ash Rober ts 
 trees and hide. You can’t play without a harness." The horn blew. 
Selkerdrim’s dragon lifted off into the sky, soon followed by the 
other Blue dragons. The Reds, Greens, and Oranges rose in their 
respective sections of the field. Soon, Farean and I were the only 
ones left.  
I sighed. "Well, let’s go have a seat and wait for this to be over."  
We sat under the shade of an oak and watched the other dragons 
and riders flit across the sky. Authand and another instructor, " Aran’s  
rider", Farean provided somewhat helpfully, announced the game.  
The Orange dragons seemed to focus on defense. They made no 
attempt to hide their flag, but a wall of the giant beasts surrounded it. 
The younger ones, nearly double the size of an adult Blue, worked on 
points.  
A Green, undoubtedly thinking itsel f sneaky, dove from an 
impossibly high height towards the Orange flag. Its speed increased 
as it got closer to the ground. Wings tucked in, the approach was 
almost silent. If I had been facing the other direction, I would have 
never known it was coming. I held my breath. Would the green 
dragon be able to stop in time?  
I couldn’t hear the approaching dragon, but apparently other 
dragons could. Just as the Green was about to break through the 
circle, one of the Oranges flicked its tail at the speeding intrude r. The 
strike was quick and precise. Neither dragon nor rider even looked, 
but the blow found its mark. The Green was thrown off course, 
tumbling twice before righting itself mere feet from the ground.  
"Ten points for Orange." Authand’s voice boomed throug h a 
speaking horn.  
If the gambit had succeeded, Green would have won the game. 
For now, they maintained the lead, but the Blues weren’t far behind. 
"Ten points for Green," Authand reported on some unseen part of 
the field. That put them up to ninety. The m atch was pretty much a 
wrap at this point. One more play, and it would be theirs. At only 
sixty points, the Blues didn’t have much chance.  
Royal Dragoneer   90 
 Cheering erupted from Elves with dragon roars joining the chorus. 
"Kalia,  look", Farean practically shouted through o ur mental 
connection. " Selkerdrim  has the Red flag. We’re  going to win." 
But it wasn’t a forgone conclusion just yet. A dozen Reds, three 
Greens, and even a small Orange chased close behind. Perhaps 
Selkerdrim’s only chance lie in the fact that the other t eams were 
more interested in fighting each other for position than in actually 
catching up to him. The Blue and his rider came in over the lake, 
wind buffeting them and slowing their superior speed. The Greens 
rode the currents in loops and twirls, taking every advantage to close 
the gap. The Reds sliced through the wind as if it weren’t there. Even 
the Orange dragon barreled through, using mass and sheer force of 
will to beat the maelstrom.  
"Psst."  
Whoever wanted me could wait. I leaned forward at the very  edge 
of my stump to watch.  
"Psst."  
I turned and found Lewon ducked behind a tree. He waved for me 
to join him. I cast a glance back towards the action and moved his 
direction. "But I want to watch this," I complained.  
"You want to watch the game, or do yo u want to win it?" He 
pointed. Just beyond where he stood in a small clearing, the green 
flag hung from a tree branch. And no one was guarding it.  
"Why show me?" I asked confused. "Don’t you want to win?"  
Lewon shrugged. "Green wins this thing all the time . If you score 
the winning points, you’ll be a hero. It will go a long way towards the 
Dragoneers accepting you."  
I considered it. Authand already hated me, and no one else was 
likely to cut me any slack. And it was only a silly game. Besides, I 
hadn’t hea rd any rules against one team helping another. "Thank 
you," I whispered to Lewon, hurrying towards the flag before he 
changed his mind. When I got to it, I wrapped my fingers around the 
silk cloth and pulled. It spilled into my arms, and I raced back to 
Farean. "We don’t have a harness, so we’ll have to walk. But if we 
91  Ash Rober ts 
 hurry, we can beat Selkerdrim back to the field." I climbed on her 
back, thinking it would be faster. And if I did fall off it was only a 
few feet to the ground.  
Farean lumbered through the t rees out onto the edge of the field. 
As soon as we broke into the open, half the Green team was upon us 
like they’d been waiting there.  
"Run," I shouted.  
Farean moved as quickly as she could, but she was no land 
mammal. Ahead, Selkerdrim had broken free of  his pursuers. He was 
going to beat me there after all.  
I was so focused on those behind me; I didn’t notice the shadow 
above me. Green talons thrust down, grabbing the flag in my arms. I 
gripped the fabric tighter, but the Green rose into the air, pulling  me 
off Farean. I screamed and let go, bouncing off Farean’s back and 
rolling to the ground.  
"Ten points for Green," Authand announced. "Green wins the 
game!" The Green bearing the flag he’d stolen from me took a 
victory lap over the field. One by one, the  other Greens joined him.  
I slowly pushed myself up from the ground, just as Selkerdrim 
landed in the marked out square little more than twenty yards in front 
of me. He would have won the game for us if I hadn’t botched it. 
Even from the distance, I could see his scowl as he dismounted.  
"Why did you do that?" he yelled at me "I told you to stay under 
cover and keep out of trouble."  
"I found their flag. There was nobody there. I thought I could 
win." I didn’t want to reveal Lewon’s role in my play and get him in 
trouble with his teammates.  
"If there’s nobody protecting a flag, it’s a trap," Selkerdrim spat. 
"They were waiting for you to take it."  
I hung my head. "I’m sorry."  
"Get out of here before the other Blues descend," he barked. 
"This would have been our first win against Green in two years, and 
you ruined it." He stormed off, leaving me standing there like an 
Royal Dragoneer   92 
 idiot. Which maybe I was. Had Lewon set me up? I didn’t want to 
believe that, but it sure looked like he had.  
"I told you", Farean huffed.  
"He f ooled you, too," I said before storming off.  
 
 
 
I took the long way back to the barracks and most of the other 
Dragoneers beat me there. A group of second year girls chatted in 
the courtyard overlooking the drago n stables. As I approached, their 
conversation stopped.  
"Thanks for your play," a girl with a tattoo of a green dragon on 
her forearm said. "The Greens would have needed an entire minute 
to win without you." The others laughed at her taunt. First the 
possi ble betrayal by Lewon, and now this? My day just kept getting 
better and better. Still, it would only make things worse if I started a 
fight.  
I smiled, calling forth every ounce of grace tutoring my mother 
had forced on me. "Maybe next time, I can score po ints for my own 
team."  
They just stared at me. Obviously, I wasn’t going to impress them 
with my grace. But there were other ways to win people.  
"Anyone want to trade clothes?" I asked, pointing down at my 
now-dusty dress. "It seems I brought the wrong tru nk and don’t have 
any riding attire. So, I propose a swap. My dress for any of the outfits 
you have on right now. I assure you, my dresses are custom made 
with the most expensive fabrics and quite valuable."  
"Why would we want a bunch of frilly stuff like that?" One of 
them asked. "We ain’t got no use for it here." The other girls tittered.  
"Don’t you ever get dressed up?" I asked. "Perhaps there’s a 
Dragoneer dance, or some rider you’d liked to impress." This 
conversation wasn’t going at all how I had hope d it would.  
"You don’t impress a rider with a dress," another girl scoffed.  
Royal Dragoneer   94 
 "And there ain’t no dance ‘cept the one in the sky," another girl 
said, and they all laughed like she’d told a lewd joke. " Oh, wait a 
minute.  Dragons  mate in the sky." 
One of the g irls was a Dark Elf. I’d heard they had limited 
opportunities because of the prejudice against them, though there 
was also an old wives tale that if you touched one it was good luck. I 
turned to her. "How about you?" I squinted at the name sewn onto a 
patch over her right breast. "Lorra? If you don’t want the dress to 
wear, you could get a pretty penny for it at the market, especially if 
you said it was from the banished Princess herself. I’m sure you 
could use the money."  
She came towards me. Like the othe r riders, she was strongly built 
and broad, her muscles rippling under her midnight skin. Two of her 
friends approached too, flanking her. The one in Green, Florian, 
towered over the others, taller than most men, with the faintest hit of 
green to her compl etion. She had to be part orc. I’d heard such 
things happened in the provinces, but it was shocking to see.  
Lorra inched closer. "What? Just because of the color of my skin, 
you think I’m poor? Not all stereotypes are true, Princess." She made 
my title sou nd like a slur. "But I guess one is. The royal family is 
stuck up and doesn’t care about the common people. Like father, like 
daughter."  
"Don’t you talk about my father." I launched myself at her, but 
Florian grabbed me and lifted me cleanly off the ground . "Let me 
go." I squirmed against her grip, legs swinging uselessly in the air.  
"With pleasure, Your Highness." With that final word, she 
launched me into the air.  
I hit the ground hard and rolled twice before a rock jammed into 
my shoulder, stopping me ab ruptly. Pain throbbed, radiating down 
my arm. The girls continued to laugh while I lay there, trying to catch 
my breath.  
I could feel Farean’s growl in my soul. " I’m okay", I told her.  
"No, you’re  hurt. I will hurt them." 
95  Ash Rober ts 
 I fought the urge to shake my head. She couldn’t see me anyway. 
"Some battles  I have to fight on my own". 
"But-" 
"No, trust me, dear". I stood slowly. My pink gown now bore a gash 
and the fabric around the split was red from my bleeding shoulder.  
Just moving hurt, but I wouldn’t give t hem the satisfaction of 
seeing it. I pushed through the crowd to the barracks door, yanking it 
open, which rewarded me with a fresh wave of pain. I clenched my 
teeth and let the door slam behind me. I braced against the wall for a 
moment before trudging up  the stairs to my room. I fished out my 
makeshift harness, not bothering to change. The opposite stairwell 
led directly to the stables.  
I found Farean resting on some sun -warmed rocks. " I like this place, 
but you don’t. "Her lips pulled back revealing her fanged teeth, an 
expression I’d come to learn was the dragon’s version of a frown.  
"I’m fine," I lied as I patted her snout. Her presence calmed me, 
and my shoulder hurt less already. I held up the harness. "We’re 
going to go for a little flight. It seems I need to go shopping."  
"Ooh, will you get me something? " She lowered her head to let me slide 
the neck rope over it and down onto her chest.  
"Sure. I’ll see if I can find you a nice harness. Something flashy to 
make the other dragons jealous." The image o f a gem -encrusted 
breast plate flashed through my mind, and she nodded approvingly. I 
inspected my progress with the harness and pulled it off before 
rotating it and trying again. Hopefully, the new harness would be 
easier to put on.  
Satisfied, at last, th at I had it on her correctly, I climbed on and 
tied myself in. Then, we leapt into the air and flew out over the lake.  
"Where  are we going? " she asked.  
I bit my lip. " Hmm,  it looks like there is some smoke  on the horizon  to the 
north.  Maybe  that’s a village." 
She banked, and we started towards the grey wisps in the distance. 
I looked down as we flew over the camp. Below, Authand waved his 
hook in the air, shouting something that was lost on the wind. I 
Royal Dragoneer   96 
 waved back as we sped away over the vast expanse of for est that 
covered so much of the realm outside the capital.  
We settled into a languid pace, rising and falling as Farean caught 
thermal currents. I leaned into the ridge along her back, relaxing for 
the first time in days. There was nothing like a good fly to calm me. 
Farean loved to fly, and, despite my initial surprise at the revelation, I 
loved flying with her. Our happiness and contentment fed off each 
other until we were almost in a state of euphoria. I wished we could 
stay in the air forever, away from  court politics and peasant bullies.  
"We have company ", Farean said.  
"Where? " I twisted my head, looking for them.  
"Behind  us. A couple  miles back, but they’re  gaining  on us". The tiny red 
dot could have been anything, but I trusted Farean’s judgement. 
Florian must have so little to do that she would chase after me just to 
continue bullying me.  
"Let’s see if we can lose them in the forest,  "I suggested. As soon as the 
words formed in my mind, she dove below the treetops. Branches 
whipped past us, be she twi sted her body left and right, avoiding any 
collisions. We fell below the upper canopy and leveled out. There 
was no trail, and Farean had to constantly dodge the trunks jutting 
from the ground. But that would make it easier to lose our pursuers.  
A crashing  sound behind us announced they had dropped below 
the trees as well. I leaned forward and urged Farean to go faster. The 
forest blurred around us as she rose above one branch and below the 
next.  
"Stop!" a feminine voice cried behind us, making me look back . It 
wasn’t Florian at least, but I couldn’t think of any good reason for 
someone to be following me through the woods. I couldn’t see 
anyone, and Farean just kept going.  
I turned forward again and saw a giant oak looming ahead of us.  
"Watch  out!" I cried,  but Farean pumped her wings harder, ducking 
a smaller elm in our way. Moments from impact with the oak, she 
spread her wings and caught one of its branches with her rear legs.  
97  Ash Rober ts 
 Momentum carried us forward as her talons shredded the bark 
underneath. We rota ted around the bough and she let go. She 
pumped her wings to steady herself out as we flew in a completely 
different direction than before.  
I listened again, but the noise of those chasing us was receding.  
"That was amazing,  "I praised Farean,"  "my chest heaving with 
exhilaration.  
She replied in mumbled thanks, her attention elsewhere.  
I followed the direction of her head as she glanced up to avoid yet 
another obstacle and then back to the ground where a small grey 
rabbit ran through the underbrush.  
It duc ked into some heather, but Farean skimmed her claw 
through the plant. The rabbit bolted from its hiding spot and back 
into sight. Farean plucked it from the ground and rose back up to the 
mid-story of the forest, making it more difficult for someone to spo t 
us. Then she popped the rabbit into her mouth and swallowed it 
whole. I could feel her neck muscles work the meal down her gullet 
towards her stomach.  
I assumed her little snack meant we weren’t being chased 
anymore. She had heard them a mile away before . She would let me 
know if she heard them again.  
Farean slowed her pace and turned towards a creek, landing on the 
mossy bank gently. As she lapped at the water, and I felt the coolness 
on my own throat, which was nice because I didn’t really want to 
clamb er out of my harness for a drink.  
Farean finished drinking and we took off, staying beneath the tree 
cover, but that made it almost impossible to know which direction 
we were going. We’d long ago lost the smoke of the village or any 
other familiar landmark . I was afraid we were lost.  
"We are still heading  north, " Farean said, matter -of-factly. " I can sense 
directions.  It’s a dragon  thing." 
"So, you’re  like a homing  pigeon? " I asked, laughing.  
"No," she frowned inside my head. " I’m the thing that eats homing  
pigeons. " 
Royal Dragoneer   98 
 "Even so", I thought at her. " Let’s go back above the trees and get our 
bearings. " 
She rose and swerved around another tree. Her pace was more 
languid now. Her snack affected her more than I would have liked. 
As we crested, I saw that we were in deed still headed towards the 
smoke, which was closer now. There was no trace of the dragon that 
had been after us, just a lone hawk circling overhead.  
Clear of any threat, we rose higher and continued towards the gray 
column in the sky. The hawk above us screeched and dove at us. The 
sound was wrong, however, and I realized with a start it was the red 
dragon from before.  
Farean dipped back below the trees, but it was too late. Silver 
talons grabbed her tail, yanking us upward.  
Farean screamed in pain, and I joined her, crying out, as she 
thrashed and tried to free herself from the dragon’s grip. Thankfully, 
it was a small beast, not much larger or older than Farean, who 
grabbed a tree limb and hung on for dear life.  
The other dragon yanked, and we screamed once again as scales 
slaked off Farean’s tail.  
Without warning, the red let go, and we dropped, putting Farean’s 
full weight on the branch. The tree stood no chance against the full 
weight of a quarter -ton animal. The wood cracked and splintered 
before fal ling. As we flailed about, Farean got her wing caught under 
her foreleg. I reached for the joint, but it was too far from the 
harness. I untied the first rope holding me in, but Farean’s tumbling 
flipped us upside down.  
She cried in earnest now. Even if I could get the wing free, she 
couldn’t fly upside down. And I couldn’t get out of the harness with 
only gravity between me and the ground. The fall alone could be 
lethal, and even if I survived it, Farean might come crashing down on 
top of me.  
If that wasn’ t bad enough, the red came diving towards us, the way 
clear now that we’d bashed the forest apart.  
99  Ash Rober ts 
 As its shadow eclipsed us, all I could think was, " I’m sorry Farean.  I 
wish I’d been a better rider for you. " 
"I will be with you forever,  Kalia.  "She thoug ht back" . In death as in life". 

 
 
 
Just as my life flashed before my eyes, a young Elf leapt from the 
red dragon hovering over us. Rope uncoiled above her, and she 
landed with a thump onto Farean’s belly.  
It took every ounce of my willpower to turn and look at her, as 
Farean’s panic pounded through my chest.  
Esgeril hooked her legs around Farean’s neck. She leaned down 
but pulled back just before the whole world shuddered and blurred 
before a crack announced a nother tree limb yielding to our weight.  
Esgeril leaned down again, carefully, slowly, and pulled on 
Farean’s forelimb.  
Farean, panicked, instinctually fighting against her.  
"Tell her to relax," Esgeril said to me.  
"But we’re going to die," I answered.  
"Not if you do what I tell you. Now relax."  
I took a deep breath and then another. " Farean ", "let her help you". I 
sent to her, with calming vibes. " It’s our only hope." 
And, little by little, Farean relaxed the tension in her leg.  
Esgeril gave it another pul l and freed Farean’s wing. Before we 
had a chance to react, Esgeril gave a tug on her rope and rose from 
Farean. I looked up in time to see her dragon land on a branch clear 
of our destruction.  
Still looking up, my body lurched as Farean rolled and spread her 
wings to slow our descent. She pumped furiously and when we 
reached the next branch, she was able to grab hold of it. We landed 
hard against it but didn’t fall.  
Royal Dragoneer   102 
 I held my breath as my heartbeat slowed. Exhaling, I looked 
down. There was nothing below u s but ground. A scant twenty feet 
of air separated us from what would have been our last "landing." 
Farean trembled as that realization struck home for her as well.  
Esgeril and her dragon swept past us and landed on the ground a 
few feet away.  
Unwilling to  give up the grip that had been so hard won, Farean 
climbed down the trunk backwards like a treed cat. The going was 
slow, but neither of us wanted to be airborne just yet.  
Esgeril stood next to her red dragon, tapping her foot with arms 
crossed as we reac hed the ground.  
Once down, Farean collapsed onto the leafy forest floor, pressing 
herself to it like it was her best friend. I couldn’t blame her. I nearly 
tore the ropes off my harness in an attempt to dismount and kiss the 
ground myself.  
The final rope u ntied, I slid off her back in a maneuver that would 
have left my mother cringing if she’d witnessed it. I faked a stumble 
and sat next to my dragon digging my fingers into the soil. I looked 
up and caught Esgeril shaking her head.  
"Why were you chasing us? " I demanded, angry and full of 
needless adrenaline now that I wasn’t going to die. "You nearly killed 
us?" 
She flinched at my verbal assault, her eyes wide. "Nearly killed 
you? I saved your lives."  
Behind us, the dragons growled. " Let me deal with this, "I told 
Farean. "And thank you for that," I shouted at Esgeril. "But we 
wouldn’t have needed saving if you hadn’t attacked us."  
"If you hadn’t run away, we wouldn’t have had to chase you."  
"I had quite enough teasing for one day, thank you very much. I 
didn’t need you following me to town and harassing me more."  
"Harass? What are you talking about? Colonel Authand sent me 
after you because you’re not allowed to leave camp without 
permission."  
103  Ash Rober ts 
 "Well, I was going to town to get gear," I said, my anger waning a  
little. "Everybody keeps telling me as Dragoneer can’t wear dresses, 
but that’s all I have." I looked down at my sun dress, which was 
ripped in a dozen different spots now, not just the tear on the 
shoulder. Underneath, my skin was covered in scratches. B lood 
stained the torn fabric, but I couldn’t find the source on my body.  
Esgeril grinned at my sorry state. At first, she covered her mouth 
to hide the smile, but then her lips pursed, and her face contorted. 
Finally, she could hold it no longer and erupted into a full -on 
chuckle.  
"What’s so funny," I demanded.  
She ignored me as she dropped to her knees and beat the ground 
with her fists.  
"Stop it." I protested, but somehow found myself grinning too.  
She tried to compose herself but broke into another  fit of snorting 
laughter. Finally, she got it under control as she huffed for breath. 
"You were going the wrong direction," she said.  
"How was I supposed to know that. I don’t even know why I’m 
here. Everything I do is wrong."  
Her smile waned. "You’re new . And you don’t know much. That’s 
true. But you definitely belong here. That was some of the best flying 
I’ve ever seen."  
"Really? It was mostly Farean. And I’m sure it wasn’t anything 
special."  
Esgeril put a hand on my shoulder. "Both of my parents are 
Dragoneers; dragons practically raised me. I’ve never seen anyone 
maneuver through the woods like that. You should try out for the 
Dragon Race."  
The Dragon Race only happened once per century, and the 
winners’ species had bragging rights until the next one. Some had 
wanted the upcoming event cancelled due to the Goblin wars. The 
Nightbloods, the current trophy holders, had been the most vocal in 
favor of that plan. But my father had brokered a deal. In two years, 
the winner would lead the combined dragon armi es against the 
Royal Dragoneer   104 
 Goblins. But the idea of me and Farean winning was ridiculous. This 
was probably just another cruel joke Dragoneers pulled on unwanted 
first-years.  
"There’s no way I could win," I told Esgeril. "I probably wouldn’t 
even place in the qualifyi ng Run. People have spent their entire lives 
training for the Race."  
"They have." She nodded. "But half of them don’t show the skill 
you just demonstrated without any training at all. But it doesn’t 
matter to me if you enter." She shrugged. "If we don’t ge t you back, 
you’ll never be a Dragoneers anyway. If we hurry, there might still be 
time to go shopping today."  
She pulled herself onto her dragon’s back in a single motion and 
hooked herself into the harness. In a blink, they were airborne, rising 
up throu gh the hole in the forest canopy we’d made.  
Farean and I looked at each other. Neither of us was eager to fly 
again so soon, but we really didn’t have a choice. I trembled slightly 
as I mounted her and retied the knots on my makeshift harness. 
Farean lifte d off and we rose above the trees, taking a much more 
leisurely pace than Esgeril. They flew in meandering circles as they 
waited for us. Once we reached their altitude, they too off toward 
camp.  
We followed, but Farean stayed well behind. She wasn’t about  to 
let another dragon get within talon’s reach of her in the air again.  
The sun reached its zenith as we approached the camp. My 
stomach rumbled, reminding me that I hadn’t eaten since yesterday. 
After landing, I cast a glance towards the dining hall, but  Esgeril 
shook her head and took off towards the Colonel’s office. I could 
smell the scent of freshly baked bread wafting from the cafeteria, but 
I turned my back on it and followed after her.  
Being a dragon unconcerned by human rules and protocols, 
Farean  wandered towards where sides of beef were being handed out 
to dragons for their noon meal. I’d do anything to trade places with 
her right now.  
105  Ash Rober ts 
 The aide stood at the open door to the Colonel’s office, and he 
waved us in. We were obviously expected, but not  in a good way. I 
didn’t even have a chance for my eyes to adjust to the dim indoors 
before Colonel shouted, "Get in here right now! You, too. Esgeril."  
Her eyes grew large at being included, but she didn’t hesitate to 
follow me into the dragon’s den.  
The Colonel thumped his hook against his desk, chips of wood 
flying in various directions. "Kalia, maybe you could do whatever you 
pleased at the castle, but in the Dragoneers, we have rules that must 
be followed. You can’t run off without permission."  
"I didn ’t know."  
"That’s right, you didn’t. Because you haven’t bothered to learn 
the first thing about your duties. Starting tomorrow, you have no free 
time. When others are off relaxing, you’ll be reporting to Flatch for 
additional lessons. You will do this eve ry day until you’ve caught up 
with the rest of your hatching group."  
"Fine," I said. "But I need riding clothes. Apparently, my dresses 
aren’t quite sturdy enough."  
He looked over my tattered dress.  
I’d forgotten how much skin was exposed. I hunched my 
shoulders forward to make myself smaller.  
He shook his head. "No, they aren’t. But you must understand 
that Goblins have been spotted in this area, and the rules are there 
for your safety. You might feel invincible in the air, but greyskin are 
stealthy in the  wood. If you land your beast for a drink, you’re likely 
to find a blade coming out your chest." He raised his hook and 
waved it in front of me. "I lost my hand to Goblin’s defending your 
grandfather’s land because I got too cocky. And you know what 
happen ed to him. Don’t forget that. Never let your guard down."  
I gulped. No, I wouldn’t forget seeing my grandpa die. But I had 
forgotten the dangers that lurked, even after what had happened to 
Lewon and me on the way to Theron’s farm. I guess I had been so 
pissed off about the scrape with Florian and her gang, that I’d lost 
my head.  
Royal Dragoneer   106 
 "So, I have a quandary." The Colonel said. "You will be 
disciplined, but you also need riding gear before you can perform 
your punishment." He sat back down, a look of contemplation on his 
face. "You haven’t had a good start with the other girls, have you?" 
He asked.  
I shook my head, not meeting his gaze. I’d been taught grace and 
poise, but that didn’t seem to matter for anything out here. Instead, it 
had brought me sco rn and ridicule.  
He mulled the dilemma over, scratching at his chin with the blunt 
edge of his hook. Then, he seemed to finally remember that Esgeril 
was in the room with us. "Esgeril, you will accompany her to get 
gear, helping her discern what she needs.  And then you, Kalia," He 
turned back to me, "will spend tomorrow working in the stables for 
the stunt you pulled today."  
Esgeril gave me a sympathetic glance. Stable duty was bad. I had 
helped Theron clean out the pig sties a few times, and they were 
small animals, but it had been back -breaking work. And of course, I’d 
cleaned up after Farean, but she was petite for a dragon. But Esgeril 
didn’t argue about her duty, and neither did I. We both just nodded, 
and I gave out a soft, "Yes, sir."  
The Colonel was already examining a scroll on his desk. Without 
looking up he barked, "Dismissed!"  
We didn’t need to the told twice and quickly fled the office.  
"The town with shops is south of here," Esgeril said, heading for 
the stables. "We’d better head out before he changes his mind."  
I was starving, but maybe there would a chance to eat in town. At 
the stable, I had to pull Farean away from her meal, hoping she 
hadn’t eaten too much to affect her flying. She was grumpy about 
leaving again, and I couldn’t blame her. I  tied my rope harness 
together, and we were back in the air.  
Riders can’t really chat when they flew. The distance, wind, and 
velocity made it almost impossible to converse. That’s why our mind -
speak with our dragons was so useful. So, Esgeril and I rode i n 
silence for an hour before smoke on the horizon announced the 
107  Ash Rober ts 
 presence of a settlement. My stomach gurgled anew, and Farean 
picked up her pace, feeling my hunger. We landed at a wide pavilion 
made of black rocks. After we dismounted, the two dragons quic kly 
curled up upon the stones and I could feel Farean slip into a slumber. 
A path led into the village proper, and Esgeril and I started down it. I 
recited a list of what I thought I might need, and she nodded without 
speaking, picking up her pace. Despite  her being a full head shorter 
than me, I had to jog to keep up.  
Esgeril led me down the dirt street to the tradesmen’s section of 
town. I slowed at each food stall until she had mercy on me. She 
reached into a pouch and handed me some bread and a pinch of  
stimleaf. "Rule number one of being a Dragoneer. Always pack a 
snack, because you never know when your next meal will be. Now 
hurry and eat this before we go inside."  
I didn’t have to be told twice and wolfed it down, hardly bothering 
to chew.  
A bell on t he door gave a quiet ring as we entered a small shop. A 
short woman dressed in a leather vest over a faded blue dress popped 
her head out from behind a curtain. She saw Esgeril and smiled. 
"Dear, how have you been? Look at you, you’re getting so tall. I’m 
going to have to put a stack of rocks on your head." She brought 
Esgeril into a fierce hug, her head barely above that of the young 
Dragoneer.  
"Aunt Tirada, this is Princess Kalia." Esgeril extracted herself 
from the older woman’s grasp.  
Tirada stopped bre athing a moment. Her eyes widened before 
springing into action, dropping to a knee so fast that she nearly took 
her niece down with her.  
I blushed for the millionth time today. "Please, stand up. Besides, 
I’m not even a princess anymore." I frowned.  
She ro se and wrapped her arms around me. "I’d heard rumors that 
there was an upheaval in the capital with dragons involved, but didn’t 
know they involved you, my child."  
I stiffened. "I’m not a child," my voice cracked.  
Royal Dragoneer   108 
 She pulled away from me, staring into my e yes. "No, of course 
not. You are a beautiful young woman and now a Dragoneer to boot. 
Once you adjust to the changes in your life, there will be nothing to 
stop you." She glanced over my torn dress. Not for the first time 
today, I wished I’d had a chance t o change before we left. "Now I’m 
guessing you came for some proper riding gear?"  
I nodded, and she whirled into motion. She plucked a tape 
measure from nowhere and took measurements which she chalked 
onto a slate she kept tucked in her apron pocket. Withi n a minute she 
had measured every inch of me as thoroughly as the Royal Taylor did 
in an hour.  
"You’re in luck," she said, smiling. "You’re almost an exact match 
for riding gear I was already working on. I can adjust it and have it 
ready this afternoon. I’ ll just make a new set for the customer it was 
intended for."  
"I couldn’t –" I started, but she put a hand up and shushed me.  
"Tut-tut," she said. "She won’t be back until next week anyway. 
That gives me plenty of time. Do you need a harness?"  
I looked at the rope marks on my arms and my ankles and 
nodded.  
"Farean is about ten hands tall and maybe five wide," Esgeril said. 
"But she’s only as old as Baran. My guess is she will be near twice 
that by the time she is full -grown."  
Tirada nodded and disappeared i nto the back. She returned with a 
heavy looking saddle with straps longer than my arm that terminated 
in steel buckles. She handed it to me, and I nearly threw it in the air, 
surprised by how light it was. My hand slid over the saddle. Like the 
harness its elf, it weighed next to nothing.  
She noticed my puzzlement and explained, "Aluminte. It’s difficult 
to get but extremely light."  
My hand instinctively went for my purse. I had a fair amount, 
probably more than anyone else at the training camp. But it would n’t 
last forever, and I didn’t think I would ever see another dime from 
my parents.  
109  Ash Rober ts 
 "I might need something a little more basic," I admitted.  
"No, you misunderstand," Tirada said. "This is a gift. And I’m so 
glad to see Esgeril has made a friend. She’s been so withdrawn since 
her father died."  
Esgeril glared at her aunt. "I have not. I’ve just been busy. 
Speaking of which, Kalia needs to see if that harness fits, and you 
have a suit of leathers to finish." She tugged at my arm and pulled me 
towards the d oor. 
"I—well, thank you." I stammered. "Still, I must pay you 
something." But Esgeril had already pulled me out to the street.  
"You can argue with her about payment when we come back for 
the riding leathers," she said. "But I can already tell you, you’ll l ose."  
I followed her, shifting the saddle to a two -handed grip as I 
struggled to keep up with her half -run towards the dragon stones. 
She turned a corner, and I called, "Wait up."  
Around the building, she stood waiting, impatiently tapping her 
foot. 
"Hey, what’s the rush?" I asked. "We can’t leave until the leathers 
are done anyway, and your aunt was really nice."  
"I know," she said, rolling her eyes. "My entire family is painfully 
nice."  
"And that bothers you?" I asked, incredulous.  
"Listen," she said, sto pping and whirling toward me. "I love my 
family, okay, but they always look on the bright side. They always 
have a smile for everyone. Or a kind word or deed. And things aren’t 
always rainbows and happiness. Sometimes things suck, and they just 
don’t get t hat." 
"Okay," I said, taken back by her vehemence. "So, you’re sad, and 
they don’t get that?" I took a stab at her problem with her overly -
cheerful family.  
"Exactly!" she threw up her arms in frustration. "My father died 
nine months ago, and I’m supposed t o be over it? I’m supposed to 
put on a happy face and smile for the family, so they won’t worry 
about me. I don’t know how they can just move on like he never 
Royal Dragoneer   110 
 existed. It’s not right. Who will remember him if we don’t? It’s like 
they’re erasing his existen ce with their smiles and pat phrases. And 
every time I see them, they expect me to erase him too." She 
stopped, tears glistening in her eyes, glancing around and realizing we 
were still on the street, though no one was really paying attention to 
us. 
"I saw  my grandpa die when I was five." I said, feeling her pain. 
"No one can ever erase that. How did your father die?"  
"It was a Goblin ambush," Esgeril said. "My parents were riding 
on a routine patrol when a net caught mom’s dragon and dad caught 
a spear try ing to cut them loose." I could see her knuckles turning 
white as she pressed her fingers into her palms. "The day he died, I 
vowed I’d become a Dragoneer and avenge his death." She took off, 
headed around another corner and I followed, our dragons coming 
into view as we rounded it.  
Farean picked up her head, cocking it slightly. " Baran  says they will 
kill every Goblin  in the kingdoms ". "Is that our job now?" 
"Goblins killed Esgeril’s father," I explained.  
Farean’s eyes narrowed. " Then we will help them". 
I couldn’t imagine ever killing someone, even as hideous a creature 
as a Goblin. I mean, I knew it would be part of my job as a 
Dragoneer. But I had once thought just like Esgeril about dragons —
that they were hideous beasts —that they should all die because of 
what one had done to my grandfather. And now I had a dragon as a 
best friend and companion. Was it possible we had misjudged 
Goblins in the same manner?  
It was a startling thought, but one I couldn’t easily dismiss.  
 
 
 
I put my new harness on Farean’s back and Esgeril showed me 
how to connect the straps. The front went on the opposite side of 
her forelegs than I had put the ropes. The saddle felt firmer and 
much more secure. The scalloped underside of the buc kles fit against 
the scales of her belly as if they had been molded to them.  
Esgeril directed Farean to fly and do some loops to see how she 
could move in it. I stepped forward, but she put a hand on my 
shoulder. "You don’t have your gear yet. There’s noth ing for the 
straps to connect to. And riding without a harness usually ends 
poorly."  
I thought back to my first ride when I had slid from Farean’s back 
before she was more than a few feet in the air. I nodded. " Go on," I 
told Farean. " Fly without  me. I’ll be down here admiring  your grace." 
Exhilarated by my flattery, she leapt into the air. Baran followed 
Farean into the sky and they swooped around each other, diving at 
each other in mock attacks and generally frolicking in the sun.  
"Baran is a male?" I ask ed blushing, but the answer was obvious 
by what her dragon displayed when he flew overhead. "I thought 
dragons only bonded with riders of the same gender."  
"Sometimes they don’t." Esgeril didn’t add anything more to that.  
We watched them in silence for som e time before I heard Farean 
whine. " Aww,  I don’t want to". Baran landed on the rocks and Farean 
followed him to the ground. I removed the harness and placed it with 
Esgeril’s in a large metal box near the edge of the pavilion.  
We were halfway back to Tira da’s shop before I broke the silence. 
"If you don’t mind telling me, I was wondering what happened to 
your father’s dragon after he died."  
Royal Dragoneer   112 
 She slowed almost to a stop. "The bond between a Dragoneer and 
dragon is very strong. Unbreakable. I’ve known Dragone ers who lost 
their dragon and have barely been able to function after that. Some 
don’t. The Dragoneers have a home in the mountains where those 
who can’t take it are sent, broken husks of Elves and other races so 
catatonic that the healers have to feed and  bathe them."  
I shuddered at the thought. "But what if the dragon survives their 
rider?" I couldn’t imagine similar homes for dragons.  
"A dragon that’s lost their rider is dangerous. They lose their 
minds. They have to be put down or they will attack anyon e, even 
friends."  
"Is that what happened to…"  
"To Niden? No. Dad died in battle. If a rider -less dragon in peace 
is dangerous, one in battle is even more so. Niden took down an 
entire company of Goblins before being brought down by their 
archers. It allowe d mom and Susa to escape." Her voice caught again, 
and this time tears openly rolled down her cheeks. I thought she was 
done speaking, but she resumed. "Then those beasts, those 
abominations, they ate him. Goblins eat dragon met, and they ate 
dad’s dragon in front of his corpse."  
I had no words to comfort her. In fact, I was kind of feeling 
traumatized and in need of comfort myself. Fortunately, we had 
arrived at Tirada’s shop, and I could turn my mind to other matters.  
As we entered, Tiranda was pushing a wooden mannequin out to 
the floor. On it were the new riding leathers, the same Aluminte 
buckles shining around the waist, waiting to accept the straps from 
Farean’s harness. The breastplate was dyed blue nearly equal in color 
to her scales, although, look ing closer, I noticed the royal gold and 
black woven into the stitching. The design reversed for the pants 
with black suede inlaid with blue.  
I sucked in my breath. "It’s beautiful. But how did you make it so 
quickly?"  
Tirada shook her head. "Like I told y ou. This was nearly finished 
already. It needed only some minor modifications. And a happy 
113  Ash Rober ts 
 accident that both your dragon and the originally client’s are Blue. I 
sent your measurements to a tailor and had some more day -to-day 
clothes sent over." She pointe d to a bundle tied in sackcloth on a 
wooden chair. "There’s only a couple sets, but it should get you 
through until you can get back to order a new wardrobe when you 
have more time."  
I looked down at my feet, still clad in the leather boots Theron 
had give n me. "That may be a while." I said, thinking about Authand 
and how little he trusted me.  
"Well, we hope to see you again soon." Tiranda smiled. "If you 
want to change out of that dress, you can use my workroom behind 
the curtain," she said, pointing.  
"I can help if you want," Esgeril said shyly. "Riding leathers can be 
a little confusing the first time."  
"Thank you," I said, grabbing the bundle of clothes while Esgeril 
wheeled the mannequin through the curtain. The area dwarfed the 
front of the shop and li ght streamed through large windows on either 
side positioned high on the walls to capture the most daylight. The 
space was tidy, with even the sheets of leather meticulously stacked 
with edges aligned. Father always said that an organized workspace 
was a s ign of a master craftsman.  
I quickly shed my tattered dress. I gave my chest wrap a cursory 
inspection, but it seemed to have made it through my adventures 
unscathed. Tiranda had given me two functional sets of clothing in 
brown, similar to the ones that E sgeril wore under her riding garb. 
The shirt gave me no problem, but the breeches only reached mid -
thigh before getting stuck.  
I lowered them, but Esgeril put her hand on my arm. "You forgot 
to undo the clasp." Her hand moved to a wooden toggle between my 
legs, accidentally brushing the inside of my thigh. The touch made 
me shudder. It was involuntary, embarrassing, and Esgeril definitely 
noticed, immediately jerking her hand away.  
"The only trousers I’ve ever worn were much too big on me, and I 
could just slide them up. I never wore pants before I was thrown 
Royal Dragoneer   114 
 out," I said sheepishly. "Mother said it wasn’t ladylike." I studied the 
toggle intently, and then fumbled with pushing it through the hole.  
"And you’ve never opened the fly of somebody cute, hidden fro m 
sight in some dark corner of the castle?" She grinned lecherously at 
me. 
"What? No! I had a boyfriend. We were engaged, but all we ever 
did was kiss. There was always some servant around to keep an eye 
on us." I didn’t like thinking of Etlin. I’d been av oiding thinking of 
him for weeks. And now I was beginning to realize our relationship 
hadn’t been the romantic, passionate courtship I’d imagined it to be. 
There was so much I didn’t know about boys. And despite the fact 
that it looked like Lewon had set m e up this morning, I still felt 
drawn to him. I gave a sidelong glance at Esgeril, daring to ask, "Do 
you think that’s something Lewon would expect me to do?"  
Her expression darkened at his name. "He comes from the west." 
She shrugged. "They favor  fast, hot courtships there. Why? Do you 
fancy him?"  
"Yeah," I admitted. "I wouldn’t mind his parents, err, his guardian, 
arranging a match with mine."  
She snorted in laughter, not even bothering to cover her mouth. 
"Arranging a match?" she choked out. "Th at’s rich. Dragoneers don’t 
arrange marriage. We rarely bother with marrying at all."  
The color drained from my face. "Not even your parents?"  
The mention of her recently deceased father sobered her quickly. 
"They loved each other very much. More than the couples in your 
fancy court, I’d bet. But when ma had me, dad simply moved in with 
her, and they informed their commander they would need to ride in 
the same company."  
It didn’t seem right to me, but the look on Esgeril’s face made me 
drop the subject. She  scowled to herself while I examined my 
reflection in the polished metal mirror in the corner. The garments fit 
well, much better than I would have expected from a provincial 
tailor. I was beginning to rethink my belief that the capital had all the 
115  Ash Rober ts 
 best tr adespeople. I picked up the leathers and held them up to 
Esgeril.  
Wordlessly, she took them from me and directed my limbs into 
the appropriate holes, like her personal puppet. I felt badly that I’d 
upset her asking about her parents. But I couldn’t take it  back.  
I fastened the buckles and examined myself again. They fit like a 
second skin, tight enough to keep from binding but loose enough to 
allow free movement. As I admired myself, Esgeril stormed out, 
pushing past the curtain.  
I followed her out to the m ain part of the shop, but she was 
already out the door, standing on the curb, her shoulders hunched.  
Tiranda followed my gaze and shook her head. "She just needs 
some space. Just be there for her as a friend. That is the best thing 
for her. If you can do t hat, I will consider myself the better end of 
the bargain for your leathers."  
"You don’t have to buy my friendship," I protested. "I need a 
friend as much as she does. And I have to pay you something. At 
least let me cover the cost of materials."  
"Not toda y, young lady. I insist." Her face hardened, and I 
withered under her glare. She giggled at my expression, her face 
softening. "Esgeril is my only remaining family. I would give anything 
to see her happy again. And her father’s death isn’t the only thing 
she’s dealing with. Now go, before she takes off and you get lost in 
town." She pushed me in the direction of the door just as Esgeril 
stepped off the curb, heading back toward our dragons without me.  
I looked back, breathed, "thank you," and left, chasing Esgeril 
down the street.  
We reached the dragons in silence. I was getting a little tired of the 
cold-shoulder treatment but remembered Tirada’s advice to just be 
present. Esgeril waited in silence for me to strap myself into my new 
harness on Farean’s back . It took a couple of tries, but she didn’t say 
anything or offer advice from her position on Baran’s back. Then, we 
lifted off and rode back to camp, arriving as the sun approached the 
horizon.  
Royal Dragoneer   116 
 After we landed, I removed the harness and set it in a box in  the 
stable with Farean’s name on it. Tomorrow, I’d be cleaning the 
stable, polishing and oiling other rider’s saddles, and who knew what 
other back -breaking work. And I wasn’t looking forward to it.  
I looked up to find that Esgeril was already gone.  
Someh ow, I’d managed to make my first female Dragoneer friend 
and lose her, all in the same day. So much for Tirada’s vote of 
confidence in me. Mother always said I asked too many questions —
that I was too curious. But I didn’t know how to be any other way.  
I made my way back to my room, catching glares and stares from 
Florian and her friends. I dropped to my straw mattress, not 
bothering to change.  
It wasn’t until I was about to fall asleep that I remembered the 
after-dinner training meeting at the lake Lewon ha d promised me.  
Had he waited there for me, wondering why I hadn’t come? Or 
had his invitation been just another joke to humiliate the princess 
Dragoneer?  
I had no idea. And honestly, at that point, I was too tired to care.  
 
 
 
I stood before the entrance to the dragon stables in the early 
morning light. I was beginning to understand why Father chewed 
stimleaf every morning. Thinking of him brought a twinge, as always. 
But if this was to be my lot in life, I was de termined to make the 
most of it.  
Metal clanged behind me. "You’ll need these," Esgeril said. She 
held a bucket in one hand and a rake in the other. "These should be 
inside, but I overheard Florian last night. Don’t expect to find any 
supplies."  
"Thank you, " I tried to meet her gaze, but I guess what I had said 
the day before was still too raw, and she looked away. "Where are 
yours?" I asked.  
"It's not my punishment." She jammed her fists in her pockets. 
Dragoneer pockets were designed for function, unlike the clothing 
I'd once owned. Half of my outfits didn't even have pockets. What 
need did I have to carry things? I had servants for that. But now I 
could carry supplies for a day or more in the pouches that adorned 
my clothing. Or, apparently the hands of s omebody that was upset at 
me for reasons she wouldn't say.  
"Just do yourself a favor," Esgeril said after a pause. "Don't say 
anything like that to the others. It won't —" The toe of her boot slid 
through the dirt between us. "It won't end well for you." Wi th that 
cryptic message, she turned and left.  
Has Baran  told you what's  going on?I asked Farean. Because  I'm lost. 
He says that it is beneath  the affairs  of dragons.  I'm going back to sleep. 
Menoth  is in heat, and I got no sleep last night due to the males boasting  of how 
they would  mate her. 
Royal Dragoneer   118 
 I blushed at the image she sent over and my mind slipped to 
Lewon. Would he fight others for my hand? I imagine Etlin’s father 
had argued with the other dukes over whose toddler would marry me 
one day.  
None of this remi niscing about my life before the hatching would 
get me through my punishment more quickly. Clutching Esgeril's 
rake and bucket, I pushed open the door.  
Mucking the pens at Theron's had prepared me somewhat for the 
smell, but dragons were much bigger creatu res than pigs. Stalls lined 
all four walls for the distance of the building. It seemed smaller on 
the inside, until I realized the far wall was a divider for the other half. 
Just as the boys and girls at the camp were separated, so were our 
dragons. That m eant that Esgeril had to walk the entire length of the 
massive building just to enter from the boy's side.  
"It's about time you showed up." The laughter of several girls 
broke me from my thoughts. "Thinking you're just going to waltz in 
here after we're al l done?" I didn't need to look up. I'd only heard 
Florian’s voice once, but I wouldn’t forget it. I had a feeling I'd be 
hearing a lot of it over the next three years. "Don't worry, we 
wouldn't dream of denying her highness what she deserves."  
I looked ove r to the stall where they were sitting. Florian leaned 
against her Green dragon's hide which seemed to melt into the 
shadows behind her. The other girls from yesterday arranged 
themselves on pails nearby. Florian’s dragon’s stall was immaculate, 
but the ot hers were untouched.  
"I'm sorry about yesterday. I don't want any trouble," I said.  
"Then you better get to work. We've got our stalls covered. You 
can take care of the rest. But you better hurry. Somebody told 
Authand that you were avoiding your punishmen t." On that cue, the 
girls scattered to their own stalls as the door opened behind me.  
"Why aren't you cleaning?" The Colonel's voiced boomed behind 
me. 
119  Ash Rober ts 
 I whirled around with the rake still in my hand. Authand grabbed 
the implement from me before it hit hi s face and threw it at my feet. 
Even the dragons fell silent as they waited for his reaction.  
"I'm sorry," I said in a small voice. Why was I always saying that 
here? It was like I could never get anything right.  
He didn't move; he barely even breathed. Wh en Father got like 
that, I knew what came next wouldn't be good.  
"Why aren't you cleaning?" He repeated at last. "Why isn't anyone 
cleaning? Do you all want another day of punishment?" He said, 
louder. The words echoed off the stone walls. Florian and her friends 
scurried back to work, leaving me with an empty bucket and an angry 
Dragoneer.  
"I just got here. " I admitted after my ears stopped ringing.  
"Another day's punishment for tardiness." Authand looked like he 
was going to say something else but left i nstead.  
I leaned down to pick up the rake, but Florian stepped on the 
handle, pinning it to the floor. "You don't belong here," she said.  
"Don't you think I know that?" I stood, facing here. She was 
nearly a head taller than me and I had to look up to meet  her glare.  
She crossed her arms over her chest. "What a waste of a dragon. 
They shouldn't let you nobles come to the hatchings. There's 
someone out there who has worked hard their entire life, 
heartbroken and stuck in their life because you took their cha nce to 
become a Dragoneer."  
Florian turned her head back towards her companions who had 
mucked out their stalls into the central hallway. It was the space the 
dragons fed into when they entered through holes in the ceiling. 
"Come on, girls. We're done. The  rest is for her highness." Without a 
word, they filed past me.  
Over the next four hours, I carefully cleaned out each dragon's 
stall. As the day progressed, they woke and left. Their great wings 
spun over the muck pile, and I had to take several breaks to  move it 
outside. Other riders entered to tend to their dragons, but they 
ignored me as I worked. Was this how the maids in the castle had felt 
Royal Dragoneer   120 
 when I’d pretended they weren't even in the room with me unless I’d 
needed something? It was a horrible feeling and I vowed I would do 
better if I was ever allowed to return.  
 
 
 
The next morning, I followed Esgeril to a small arena near the 
dragon pavilion for the first class of the day —Tactics. But the 
professor, a small  woman with deep lines in her face, turned me 
away. "You are so far behind, dear, that you have no clue what is 
going on. Authand wants you to report to Flatch, instead."  
The Dragoneers who had arrived before us stared at me as I left 
the room, murmuring b etween themselves, undoubtedly discussing 
how much of a fool I’d made of myself once again. I went back 
outside and realized that I did not know how to find Flatch or even 
who he was. I turned and steeled myself to go back in and ask in 
front of everyone, cementing my reputation as the camp idiot.  
"Ho," a raspy voice called behind me. A whitehaired Elf stood 
hunched over where there had been no one a moment before. 
"Follow me." He turned sharply and strode across the grounds.  
Figuring he couldn’t possibly b e a new rider, I chased after him. I 
was surprised by how quickly he moved and was huffing by the time 
we reached a small hut by the lake. He pointed at a small rock half 
buried in the sand, and I took the hint to sit.  
"In the mornings, I will teach you th eory and, in the afternoon, 
you will go with Lewon to train."  
Had Lewon asked for that privilege or been assigned to me? Well, 
at least I’d get to ask him if he’d set me up in the Capture the Flag 
game.  
"Did you say something? Speak up, girl. My hearing is n’t what it 
used to be."  
"I didn’t say anything."  
Royal Dragoneer   122 
 "Good. Best to keep your mouth shut and your ears open." He 
disappeared into the hut and came back with a wooden chair that he 
placed in front of my rock, finally introducing himself as Flatch. He 
then sett led into his chair before launching into a history of the 
Dragoneers. My mind wandered, and I paid more attention to the 
position of the sun than to the lecture. I tracked its progress to its 
zenith thinking of seeing Lewon again. Finally, the bells tolled , 
signaling lunch. I said a quick thanks to Flatch for the lesson I had 
ignored and rushed off to the dining hall.  
After lunch, Farean and I flew to the spot by the lake where 
Lewon had said he would meet me. Calen splashed in the lake while 
Lewon whittled  away at a stick with a mean looking knife.  
"Sticks  are boring ". Farean commented, as we set down on the 
sandy beach. " Except  the big sticks Goblins  make to puncture  dragon  hide". 
My poor little dragon baby was growing up and learning the 
dangers of the wo rld. The thought made me sad.  
I fumbled with my harness buckles, hoping Lewon wouldn’t 
notice.  
I climbed down and took the saddle off Farean, saying, "Well, go 
on, then. Have fun and see what Calen can teach you." She took a 
running jump into the shallows and landed with a splash that 
threatened to soak me despite my distance.  
Lewon shoved his stick point down into the ground and folded his 
knife before acknowledging my presence. "You sure know how to 
get yourself in trouble. In just one day, you managed to  find more 
trouble than most Dragoneers find their entire first year."  
"Maybe I had some help," I said angrily, eyeing him. "You pointed 
me to a flag with a Green ambush around it, promising I’d the hero 
of the game. And somehow, it didn’t work out that wa y." 
"You think I set you up?" He asked, sounding hurt. "Do you really 
believe that of me after all we’ve been through together?" He was 
upset, that much was obvious. But was it because he’d been falsely 
accused, or caught in the act?  
123  Ash Rober ts 
 "I don’t know," I said , moving toward him. "Yesterday I was 
humiliated, mocked by my peers, tossed by a giant, almost died crash -
landing into a forest, didn’t eat all day, and managed to piss off the 
one other person who’s been remotely nice to me. It was a really bad 
day."  
"Well, now you’ve managed to piss off both people who’ve been 
nice to you," he said, but he was grinning. "You seem to have a real 
knack for it."  
"I know." I nodded, my blond curls falling in my face. "I’m very 
talented. Which is exactly why I need your help.  Please teach me so I 
don’t get into any more trouble."  
He shook his head. "I’m going to teach you how to fight. How to 
defend yourself and how to attack. Not really skills that will get you 
in less trouble." He pulled a scabbard down from the tree branch 
he’d been sitting under and handed it to me. "This is a practice 
sword. Completely dull edge."  
I held the short -sword. It was heavier than I expected. How did 
everyone carry these things around?  
"I don’t see why you need that," Farean complained, pausing h er 
splashing in the shallows. " Surely  a sword  is no match  for my talons ". 
"Because you won’t always be on dragon -back," Lewon answered 
as if he’d heard her. Maybe Calen had passed along what Farean had 
said. "Now hold up your sword," he instructed.  
I raised it above my head with both hands, then saw him grasping 
his one handed in front of his chest. I quickly lowered mine, passing 
it from hand to hand as if checking for balance before settling it into 
my right hand and assuming a similar position.  
He blinked. "You’re right handed? That’s going to make this more 
difficult. I’ve never met anyone before who didn’t favor their left."  
My face soured. "We spent nearly three full days together and you 
didn’t realize I was a righty?" Righties like me were rar e, sometimes 
considered abominations among the lower classes. If I had been a 
child in a trade, my right hand would have been tied behind my back 
until I’d learned to work with my left. But being a princess had 
Royal Dragoneer   124 
 certain advantages, including the right to us e whatever hand I 
preferred.  
But Lewon hadn’t even noticed until now. Which either meant he 
didn’t care about the stigma, or he didn’t care about me enough to 
notice.  
I lunged at him with my sword.  
He took a step to his right, dropping away from my thrust with 
ease. 
I swung again, and he blocked. I made several more attempts, each 
more impotent than the last, until I stood bent over, huffing from the 
exertion.  
"That wasn’t bad for your first try,’ Lewon praised me. "Now that 
I’ve seen your natural stance an d style, I know what I need to teach 
you."  
"You made me mad on purpose?" I managed in between pants, as 
my glare softened.  
"Of course. Righties tend to be sensitive about it. It was a sure 
way to get you riled up." He smiled.  
I couldn’t believe he’d baited  me like that. And I’d fallen for it, 
hook, line, and sinker. I was going to have to be careful around this 
one. He already knew me to well for his own good. And for mine.  
I turned just in time to see Farean, in flight, burst through the 
trees with Calen h ot on her trail. I hadn’t even noticed them leave the 
lake. Farean tucked her wings in and dove towards the water. My 
heart pounded as she approached it with rising speed. At the last 
moment, she unfurled her wings and glided over the lake, her wing 
tips m aking ripples in the still water.  
Calen made for her, but Farean reached the warm sand and rode 
the updraft like an arrow shot from a bow. She curved up and behind 
him, tagging his rump with her snout before dropping down and 
landing on the sand without so  much as a cloud. Calen landed next to 
her. " He says I’m a natural ", Farean squealed in my head. " I’ll be flying 
with the year two’s in weeks ". 
125  Ash Rober ts 
 "You however," Lewon said to me, "have a lot to learn. And I 
can’t say that you have much affinity for a blade."  
"Hmph. Don’t forget I’ve never held a sword before today. At the 
castle, the servants even cut my meat. If I’m so bad, you better get to 
work training me."  
"Then follow my lead. We will start with how to hold yourself." 
He stood with his legs spread, faci ng me. I tried to follow his 
example, but he frowned. "No, square your shoulders."  
I twisted my body which elicited a head shake.  
"No, no. Here’s let me show you."  
He closed the gap between us and put his hands on my shoulders, 
pushing them into the positi on he wanted. I felt warm at his touch 
and tried to think of something else before the blush appeared at my 
ears. 
"How long have you been practicing this?" I nodded at the blade 
in my hand.  
"Ever since Authand found me after the Goblins sacked my 
village. That day, I swore I would never be defenseless again."  
It seemed everyone at camp had a story of tragedy dealing with the 
Goblin war. All this time, I’d blamed the dragon that killed my 
grandfather and not the Orc who rode it.  
"And my job is to make sure y ou aren’t defenseless either," Lewon 
said. "So, let’s focus on defensive skills. I will attack, and I want you 
to defend yourself from me." He backed up a few steps and then 
came rushing at me.  
I raised my sword, but he easily slipped past my guard and landed 
the broadside of his weapon on my shoulder.  
"Ouch." I dropped my sword in surprise and rubbed where he’d 
hit me. I could already feel the welt forming under my tunic.  
"Pick it up!" he barked. I bent down, and by the time I was 
standing he was on top  of me. I raised my sword, but he was faster. 
He brought the pommel down on my head gently enough to allay any 
damage but still hard enough to hurt.  
Royal Dragoneer   126 
 He backed off, and I returned to the stance he had demonstrated 
earlier. He moved again. This time I blocke d his blow but fell 
backward from the impact. My head bounced against the hard 
ground and stars flashed before my eyes.  
"Hold!" I cried. I tried to sit up, but red -hot throbbing stopped 
me. 
He was beside me in a flash. "Are you okay?" His hands grabbed 
my shoulders as he pulled me up and inspected my scalp.  
I blinked away the worst of the pain and panted. "I’ll be okay; I 
just need to rest a minute."  
He nodded but said nothing. He sat down beside me and stared at 
me. His gaze unsettled me. Perhaps my fall w as more serious than I 
thought.  
I felt a rush of air and Farean landed beside me, sending soothing 
thoughts to my aching head. The leaves on the ground fluttered in 
the air currents she created. A melon -sized black rock with red 
streaks poked from the grou nd where her talons had disturbed the 
grass. I grabbed the rock and pulled it from the dirt. "What’s this?" I 
held it up, inspecting it. The red glittered in the filtered sunlight 
looking for the all world like blood flowing through its veins.  
Lewon grabbe d it out of my hands.  
"Hey!" I shrieked. I tried to stand to take it back but was 
overcome by dizziness and sat back down.  
He bent and gently placed it on the ground under a bush several 
feet away. He lowered it as gently as an egg before returning his 
attention to me.  
"That is firerock. It is rare in this part of the world, but very 
dangerous. If you had dropped that, it would have killed us all." He 
stood and held out his hand. I grabbed hold of it and he pulled me to 
my feet. The world spun around me and  I wobbled. "We’re done for 
the day," he said. "Farean, get Kalia back to camp, and to a healer. A 
head knock can be serious. I’d escort you, but I need to take that 
chunk of firerock into town so that it can be disposed of properly."  
127  Ash Rober ts 
 He helped me onto Far ean’s back and fastened my buckles, his 
hands grazing my stomach and thighs.  
I sucked my breath, relishing his touch. I thought about reaching 
out and touching him back —the damp hair curled at the back of his 
neck, or the sharp curve of his jawline. But I wasn’t brave enough.  
He finished his work and gave Farean a pat on the rump. "Fly as 
smooth as a red and get her back safely," he told her. She nodded at 
him and jumped into the sky.  

 
 
 
The jolt of Farean laun ching into the sky sent me reeling. My 
hands slipped from her neck ridge, but the harness held. I regained 
my hold and drew myself in close to her body. The ground rushing 
below us made my head hurt even more, so I caused my eyes. The 
day was still early, but I was so tired. Farean knew the way. I could 
just take a nap while we flew.  
"I’m worried  for you. You don’t feel right." Her words pulled me back to 
awareness.  
"What  do you mean?  I’m just tired and my head hurts". I patted her side 
as her powerful shou lders flexed in time to her beating wings.  
"No, something  is wrong.  I should  heal you". No sooner had she finished 
thinking those words than she started descending below the treetops.  
"Silly dragon.  You can’t heal me. Just take me to the healer  for some herb 
heads. " "No, that’s not right." 
"See, even your thoughts  are all wrong. " "And I have something  better than 
herbs.  I have magic. " 
"Since when do you have magic"? "Is this a real conversation  or is it a dream?  
It feels like dream. " 
"Baran  says magic flows through  a dragon  like blood.  We are the channel,  but 
our Dragoneers  are the source.  And you are awake,  but you feel fuzzy. " 
"But I don’t have magic". I protested" . Hardly  anybody  has magic 
anymore. " 
Farean landed on a bed of leaves with hardly a rustle. " Magic  is 
strong  in you. I can feel it. Now,  get off. I can’t do anything  from below you." 
I struggled with the buckles and slid to the ground. As soon as I 
was off, she turned and stood over me. The blur of motion made me 
dizzy, and I collapsed to my knees . 
Royal Dragoneer   130 
 "That’s  a good idea. Lie down,  "she ordered.  
I crumpled the rest of the way in compliance and felt her breath 
on my scalp. I tensed, all my old childhood fears of dragon attacks 
rising to the surface of my thoughts.  
"Oh, don’t be ridiculous.  "Hurt crept into her voice. " I would  never hurt 
you". 
I felt a talon touch against a tender spot on the back of my skull 
and winced, crying out as if she were stabbing into my flesh.  
"This is not good." "A wound  like this killed  Vernis’s  rider"." Her tone 
was now ting ed with fear.  
"Who?" I turned my head, forgetting to communicate mentally.  
"Shush ". "I need to concentrate  and draw out your dormant  magic. " Her hot 
breath blew against my head and I felt the lump tingle. She blew 
again, and the tingling intensified until it burned. I cried out, but 
Farean pressed against me, keeping me immobile.  
A felt her breath a third time. I squirmed but she was much too 
strong for me. Then the burning stopped, replaced by a dull ache 
which also faded after a few minutes. Her weight sh ifted, and her 
breath tickled gently on my neck as she peered closely at the knot.  
"That’s  much better". She lifted herself off me and sat on her 
haunches.  
I reached a hand to the back of my head and the bruise from 
earlier was gone. It was still a little tender, but the swelling had 
subsided.  
"See, magic. " She gave me that odd, slightly menacing look that 
dragons had when they attempted to mimic a smile.  
I sat up, the dizziness gone. "Well, let’s get back. If Lewon sent 
word about my concussion, the entire  camp will be searching for us." 
I leapt onto her back, feeling more energy than I had since being 
exiled from the castle.  
We broke through the treetops just in time to catch Lewon and 
Calen rising up from the camp. They spotted us and circled above 
until we approached for our landing. Lewon was on his feet and at 
my side as I slid from Farean’s back.  
131  Ash Rober ts 
 "You got rid of the firerock already?" I asked him.  
"You’ve been gone over an hour. What happened? Are you okay?"  
"I’m fine. I had some, uh, private business to attend to." The lie 
came surprisingly easily, and I felt a little bad. But I wanted to know 
more about Farean’s magical revelation before I told anyone.  
"Go see the healer." Lewon gently pushed me towards the low 
building where the healer worked. "I wil l take care of your harness 
and Farean."  
I shook my head, thankful it didn’t hurt or make me dizzy. "No, I 
really am fine. The flight back did the trick."  
He looked at me and sighed. "If you say so. But I’ll make sure 
Esgeril checks on you later."  
I ignored his comment while I unbuckled Farean’s harness. If I 
could reveal Farean’s secret to anyone it would be Esgeril. Through 
her family history, she would know if something like this had 
happened before. I turned my attention back to Lewon. "I really a m 
okay, but do what you must."  
He nodded and left without another word.  
I went the opposite direction.  
Florian and her crew sat outside the girl’s barracks as usual. She 
tried to block my path as I approached, but I dug my heel into her 
foot. I wasn’t stro ng enough to hurt her, but it surprised her enough 
to create the opening I needed to push past her into the building.  
Shortly after I got back to my room, Esgeril knocked on the door. 
"How did it go? I want all the juicy details." She smiled and collapsed 
on the straw mattress by my window.  
"Well, I have a lot to learn," I said. "Farean is a natural in the air. 
Good enough that I’m holding her back. But Lewon gave me some 
good bruises today."  
She laughed. "I don’t know why we need to learn how to wield the 
blade. They don’t do any good from dragon -back. I’m glad Baran’s 
red, so I can use the crossbow dad trained me on. Did you see the 
healer? She’ll have an ointment to help with the bruising."  
Royal Dragoneer   132 
 "Actually, I have a question for you. What you know about healing  
magic?"  
"Healing magic?" She shook her head. "Don’t waste your time 
worrying about that. Nobody has any magic worth talking about."  
I frowned. "What about what Baran told Farean? About dragons 
channeling magic and focusing our powers?"  
"I broke my arm the  day after the hatching." She lifted her left arm 
and flexed it, then dropped it back to her side. "The cast came off 
just before we left for here. Maybe Dragoneers heal a few days 
quicker than normal folks. Could be dragon magic, or just that we’re 
mostly  tough people."  
I looked away, wondering what to say. How did you bring up 
magic when someone didn’t believe in it?  
"So, by the look on your face, I’d guess something happened?" she 
said. "Tell me."  
"I hit my head my head pretty hard during training. Hard enough 
to worry Lewon, so he cut our session short. He’s going to ask you to 
keep an eye on me later, just so you know. Anyway, on the way back 
to the healer, Farean got worried. Then she said that thing about 
magic that Baran told her and insisted she cou ld heal me. Started 
spouting nonsense about a dragon king." I turned my head and 
parted my hair. "I couldn’t see what was going on, but it burned and 
then it stopped throbbing and felt better." I turned back to an open -
mouthed Esgeril. "She said I had stro ng magic. But I’ve never 
noticed anything like that before."  
Esgeril sat there gaping at me, at a complete loss for words.  
"Please don’t tell anyone," I begged. "I’m enough of a freak here 
already."  
Her expression softened. "You’re not a freak. You just do n’t know 
anything." She broke into a smile. "At all. About anything. And I’ve 
never heard of dragon magic working like that. But I’ll have a chat 
with Baran and see what he says, about both you and Farean. We 
could even look in the camp archives and see if  they mention 
anything similar. But, yeah, I wouldn’t bring up dragon magic with 
133  Ash Rober ts 
 anyone until we know more or could prove something. Maybe your 
injury wasn’t as bad as you thought it was. You can’t see the back of 
your own head, you know?"  
"I know," I gave  her a friendly shove, and she rolled backward and 
off the bed with wild exaggerated motions, as if I had the strength to 
bowl her over. "See, I know that much," I insisted. "Actually, I know 
plenty. Just not anything useful." I laughed, and she let out on e of her 
signature snorts. "Now help me learn something useful so I can get 
out of my punishment sooner."  

 
 
 
I brought my sword up to block the blow just inches from my 
head. The force knocked me backwards and I dropped to a knee. 
"Hold," I called. I huffed as I supported my weight on the pommel 
of the practice blade. After several months of training now, I was 
getting better, but Lewon still usually bested me.  
"Goblins won’t give you a chance to catch your brea th," he said. 
He held out his hand, and I used it to pull myself up.  
"I know, but you will." I smiled, sheathing my blade. I wandered 
over to a stream near where it fed into the lake and scooped some 
cool water in my hands, washing away the worst of the di rt and sweat 
that caked my face.  
Looking up, a saw a glint of red, under the shade of a nearby tree. 
I’d only seen it once, but Lewon made enough of an impression 
about its danger that I’d always recognize firerock at a glance now.  
"Tell him". Farean’s voice distracted me as it echoed in my head as 
she glided lazily in the air currents above.  
"What does she want you to tell me?" Lewon prodded.  
I turned to see him wading waist high in the lake with a sharpened 
stick aimed at the surface. He kept his eyes glued on the fish darting 
between his legs, not bothering to look up when he asked the 
question.  
"You know, that gets a bit old. What’s the point of having secret 
telepathic conversations with my dragon if Calen just repeats them to 
you," I teased.  
He laug hed. "When dragons are involved, there is no privacy. So, 
you might as well tell me." He moved toward me in the water, his we 
shirt and pants clinging to his body in a very distracting way.  
Royal Dragoneer   136 
 He wasn’t going to give up, it seemed. I wondered if that meant he  
had some inkling already. "Well," I said, hesitant but determined, "I 
noticed that a lot of the male and female Dragoneers have paired off. 
Florian is already spreading rumors about us based on our training 
sessions. I was wondering if there was anyone yo u…" My voice 
trailed off as I got closer to asking the question.  
He smiled. The same sly little grin that he had shown me so many 
times in the past few weeks. And that grin alone fueled my hope. But 
he didn’t say anything. He just stared at me, wading clos er to me on 
the shoreline and waiting for me to go on.  
So, I did. "I’m only asking because. Well, because. I like you. And 
I can’t ignore that anymore. I like you. It scares me. But I need to 
know if you feel the same way." I let out a long unsteady breath . 
There. I’d said it. The flag was in his possession now.  
He walked right up and stood over me —still with that same 
cheeky grin and only the sound of water dripping off of him. His 
spear floated in the lake behind him, forgotten. The seconds ticked 
by as w e stood like that, close but not touching, my head just below 
his chin line so I could see the pulse jumping in his neck. It seemed 
to be jumping very quickly. I knew mine sure was. I was hoping he 
would kiss me, but instead he raised his hand, brushing my  sweaty 
hair from my cheek.  
"Training’s not the place for this," he said gently "It wouldn’t be 
right. I’m your teacher."  
I felt like the wind had been knocked out of me. I blinked, trying 
to understand.  
"That’s enough of a break. Back to training." He hel d out his 
hand. I felt like collapsing to the ground, screaming in frustration, 
and going off to hide all at once. Instead, I assumed the stance he 
had shown me. He attacked and I let my frustration fueled my 
moves. I deflected a series of thrusts, holding  my own for much 
longer than I had previously.  
Finally, he passed my guard and knocked me to the ground. I 
rolled and used the momentum to lift me back to my feet. This time I 
137  Ash Rober ts 
 went on the attack. Lewon blinked but raised his sword to block. He 
let me try s everal more times, but I never came close to landing a 
blow.  
He switched back to offense, landing several more touches while I 
managed to stay on my feet. He feinted, and while I was distracted by 
his sword he swept my knees with his leg. I landed on my ba ck and 
he pressed the blunted point of his weapon against my chest.  
He withdrew the point, sheathing the sword and extending his 
hand instead. Kalia," he said my name softly, like a caress. "Get 
cleaned up and meet me at the stables an hour before the dinn er 
bell."  
I gulped twice before I was able to ask hopefully, "You mean for a 
date?"  
Again, he only responded with a smile. That grin made my heart 
flutter and infuriated me at the same time. Why couldn’t he just give 
me a straight answer for once?  
He walke d past me, water cascading off his body, and went to put 
our practice equipment away.  
I clambered onto Farean’s back, but then remember something. 
"I’m still under my punishment," I reminded him. "I can’t leave the 
camp."  
He dismissed my concern with a wav e of his hand, not bothering 
to look up from his work. "I already cleared it with Authand. Don’t 
worry."  
He had cleared it with Authand? That meant he’d planned 
something for us before I’d even broached the question. My heart 
leapt just as Farean leapt int o the sky.  
"I told you to ask him, "she said. " You humans  make mating  way too 
complicated. " 
She wasn’t wrong.  
Back at the stables, I made record time removing her saddle, 
giving it only the most cursory of cleanings before putting it away. I 
found Esgeril in the central Pavilion. "Come on, I need your help." I 
Royal Dragoneer   138 
 grabbed her arm without stopping and pulled her to her feet, nearly 
over balancing her.  
"What’s the matter?"  
"Nothing, for a change.  But I do have a date." I doubled our pace 
until we were just short of a run. "And I have no clue what to wear. 
Help me go through my trunk from home. I’m finally going to have a 
chance to wear a dress again."  
I barely noticed Esgeril shut the door behind her when we entered 
my room. I ran straight for the trunk, tossing the lid open with 
enough force to rock it. I started pulling garments out.  
"Do you think I should go with the blue dress to match Farean’s 
scales or the green to match Calen?" I held the tw o up, so she could 
compare.  
"Neither." Esgeril shook her head. "Goblins have been spotted in 
the woods, and Colonel Authand has grounded everyone. No one is 
allowed leave camp."  
"No, that can’t be right. Lewon said he’d cleared it."  
"I don’t know what " Lewon" told you, but the Colonel was 
adamant. You can’t leave."  
I crossed the small room with two quick steps and stood over her. 
"Are you making this up? Why are you ruining this? Are you 
jealous?" I demanded.  
"Jealous?" She scoffed, placing her hands on her  hips and staring 
defiantly at me. "Why would I make up a lie? It’s easy enough to 
check. Just go ask the Colonel."  
"I don’t have time for that. And you know the Colonel hates me. 
He’d probably ground me no matter what, just on principle." I 
turned away fr om her, almost in tears. "Why can’t you just be happy 
for me? Finally, somebody accepts me for who I really am, and I get 
to do something for myself. Since the hatching, every decision has 
been about Farean."  
"Oh, poor you," she said sarcastically. "Poor p retty princess born 
with a golden spoon in her mouth. Now you finally find out what it 
means to live for someone other than yourself, and you run into the 
139  Ash Rober ts 
 arms of the first boy who smirks at you. Your independence is just 
something you pretend to have unti l someone comes along to take 
care of you."  
That struck a little too close to home. I narrowed my eyes as I 
exhaled out my nose. I leaned forward, close enough that my breath 
toyed with a stray lock that lay across her forehead. "Get out of my 
room," I his sed. 
Esgeril held her ground as we glared at each other. She 
sidestepped around me and grabbed the door knob. Opening it, she 
spoke in a low voice. "Lewon is up to something. You can’t trust 
him. Don’t say that I didn’t warn you." Then she was gone, leavin g 
me to my own thoughts.  
"Kalia"," what’s  wrong?  "Farean called from the stables, sensing my 
distress.  
"Be quiet. I’m fine." I waved her off even though she couldn’t see 
me. 
I looked down at the two dresses and grabbed the green one. Etlin 
had always said green suited me.  
Thinking of him didn’t bring the twinge of pain it once had. In 
fact, it had been weeks since he’d even crossed my mind. I’d been so 
devastated when he left me. Was Esgeril right about my 
independence? Was it just something I put on like a  pretty dress to 
attract someone new to take care of me? No, that wasn’t fair. I had 
grown leaps and bounds since I’d come to camp. I did everything for 
myself and I was a good Dragoneer. Being independent didn’t mean 
you couldn’t have friends or boyfriend s. You could still want and 
have those relationships. You just didn’t need them desperately or 
lose yourself in them. But would I lose myself in Lewon? Well, there 
was only one way to find out.  

 
 
 
I brushed my hands through my pony tail as I walked to the 
stables. I had hoped Esgeril would braid my hair for me, but I would 
have to make do with what I had done looking into the barrack’s 
washroom mirror. If I missed even one strand, it whipped painfully 
in my face  when I flew. It was probably why many of the female 
riders cut their hair short like boys.  
At this late hour, the stables were deserted. The other Dragoneers 
had finished their classes for the day and mealtime for the dragons 
started earlier than ours. A few slumbered in their berths. Farean 
shouldn’t be eating; she knew we would be flying tonight, but she 
was absent. I opened my storage locker retrieve Farean’s harness 
from its storage trunk before calling her back.  
"You won’t need that." I jumped at the sound of Lewon’s voice. I 
turned around, my heart pounding in my chest.  
"I thought we were flying somewhere," I said, trying not to show 
my disappointment. Was this all just a set -up again?  
He saw my discomfort and shook his head. "Farean gets a break 
tonight. We’ll ride together on Calen. You’ll just have to hook onto 
me." He gave a little half turn and pointed to a D -ring at the small of 
his back that I hadn’t noticed before.  
I followed him to Calen’s stable and stood back as Lewon 
harnessed his dragon and climbed onto its back. Once secure, he held 
out his hand to me.  
I hesitated. I’d been training for three months, but I’d never 
touched a dragon who wasn’t Farean, let alone ridden one.  
Lewon shook his arm, breaking me from my thoughts.  
Royal Dragoneer   142 
 I grabbed his ha nd and climbed on. The buckles snapped into 
place easily, pulling me very snuggly into Lewon’s back. Calen took 
two steps, and we were airborne.  
One of the first things I noticed was that we were not flying in the 
direction of the village where Esgeril’s a unt owned her shop. I 
considered bringing that up, but it was hard to talk on a dragon. And 
I didn’t want him to think I didn’t trust him.  
The wind buffeted me, pushing me back and forth. A gust 
knocked my grip loose and my buckles tensed against Lewon’s b ack 
pulling him askew as well.  
I grabbed at his shoulders, making it more difficult for him to hold 
onto the harness.  
He grasped Calen’s neck ridge and pulled himself forward in the 
saddle.  
I pried my fingers around the saddle’s edge and pulled myself back  
as well.  
"Hold on," he shouted over his shoulder.  
"I’m trying."  
"No." The wind made it difficult to hear, but there was no 
mistaking his growl of frustration. "Hold on to " me". I don’t want 
you pulling me back again."  
"Oh." The sound was lost in the wind as I tried to decide where to 
put my hands.  
Still holding on to the dragon’s neck with one arm, Lewon reached 
around and yanked my hands to his chest. I took the hint and 
wrapped my arms around his body. Calen rode an air current higher, 
and I instinctivel y pressed myself closer to Lewon. He was so warm. 
And I could feel the beating of his heart, his chest expanding and 
contracting with each breath. The heat he radiated was helping 
protect me against the chill of the air flowing past. This was much 
more int imate than I’d ever been with Etlin. I felt flush and was 
grateful for the fact that Lewon couldn’t see my reaction, or my face.  
I recalled my conversation with Esgeril on how casually 
Dragoneers viewed romantic relationships, especially those from the 
143  Ash Rober ts 
 West like where Lewon was from. That was enough to jolt me back 
to reality, and I pulled away from him a little but kept my arms 
around his chest with the lightest of grips.  
We rode in silence until white smoke appeared on the horizon. We 
made our way towards  it, and an assortment of stone and wood 
buildings came into view surrounded by a crude stone wall. Judging 
by its size and location, I guessed this was Suzu, Darneta’s second 
largest city.  
We had traveled there once when I was a child. My father took a 
comprehensive yearlong tour of the kingdom every five years of his 
rule. It helped the outlands feel connected to their king and showed 
that he cared about their lives.  
The dragon pavilion here was not so grand as it had been at 
Esgeril’s village. Further fr om the training grounds, I guessed it didn’t 
receive as much dragon traffic as the smaller town. We landed and 
deposited our harnesses in a locker before I excused myself in search 
of a mirror to fix my hair before anyone noticed how messy it had 
come.  
When I returned from the pavilion’s washroom, I found Lewon 
leaning against a pillar at the exit. He saw me and straightened, 
holding his left arm out. I took it awkwardly. Esgeril had taken to my 
righthandedness gracefully and stood on the other side to 
accommodate me. Why was I comparing Lewon to her? I took 
Lewon’s arm with more vigor than I intended, forcing the strange 
thoughts away. He couldn’t help it if he was used to most people 
being left -handed.  
Lewon led me to a dim public house with sparse candles  providing 
the only illumination. Despite the crude outward appearance, the 
owner was well dressed and led us to our table without a word. I 
perused the menu, which further showed the establishment to be 
more upscale than the average tavern, and ordered.  
Lewon spoke after the owner was out of earshot. "I know this 
isn’t as posh as the capital or the castle, but I figured you would enjoy 
a change from the camp’s cafeteria."  
Royal Dragoneer   144 
 Without the stress of training or traveling across Goblin -infested 
roads, we fell int o an easy conversation. I thought I had gotten to 
know Lewon pretty well, but I hadn’t even scratched the surface. I 
barely noticed my meal, tasty but forgettable, as the conversation 
progressed. I wished we could stay there forever.  
But then two pale -skinned men sidled up to our booth and slid 
onto the benches next to us. I was so startled, I didn’t know what to 
say. The tavern wasn’t full. There were other places to sit. And I 
hadn’t seen many, but their black hair and red eyes told me they were 
Nightbloo ds. The one next to me opened his mouth to speak, 
providing further proof with a flash of his teeth, sharpened to fanged 
points.  
"Where’s our money, Lewon?" he said, staring at me hungrily. 
"Roland doesn’t like it when his runecube players don’t pay."  
"Runecubes?" I squeaked. "Those are illegal."  
The Nightblood elbowed me. "Still, you’re boyfriend here has a 
weakness for them. He owes the boss a stoneweight." He grinned, 
showing his fangs again.  
It would take a Dragoneer four years to earn that much.  
"Lewon, how could you lose so much money?" I asked.  
"Because Roland cheats." He banged his fist on the table.  
With a Nightblood’s fabled reflexes, the one next to me grabbed 
Lewon’s hand. "Careful, boy. Roland has been patient with you till 
now, but he won’t  wait any longer. Don’t make this harder on 
yourself."  
"I have his money, Bior," Lewon said.  
"You do?" The Nightblood and I said in unison.  
"Yes. Well, the next best thing." He pointed at me. "Boys, meet 
Princess Kalia of Darneta."  
Both the Nightbloods sta red at me as I stared at Lewon. This 
couldn’t be happening. He wouldn’t do this. Who would do this?  
"I don’t have any more money than he does," I told the 
Nightblood called Bior.  
145  Ash Rober ts 
 In response, he reached out and grabbed my wrist, holding it 
tightly enough t o elicit a yelp. "No, but your father does."  
Realization of what he planned hit me, and I fought against his 
grasp.  
"Are we good, Bior?" Lewon asked, without looking at me.  
Bior stood, pulling me with him. "Yes, this will be sufficient to 
relieve your debt s. Should Roland expect you at the runecube table 
next weekend?"  
Lewon pushed his way past Bior’s companion. "Of course. It will 
be nice to see Roland owing me money for a change."  
"Lewon," I hissed. "Don’t do this."  
"It’s not personal, Kalia." Lewon said,  though I noticed wouldn’t 
look me in the eye. "It’s just business."  
And then he turned and left the restaurant without looking back.  

 
 
 
The unnamed Nightblood took my left arm and the two leeches 
dragged me towa rds the exit. I tried to search for the proprietor, but 
he was conspicuously absent.  
Outside, a light mist coated everything, and a wolf cowered under 
a nearby tree, wrapped in silver chains. It wasn’t just any wolf, 
judging by the size. A wolf that big ha d to be a wolf -shifter.  
The Nightbloods led me to the animal and pushed me over its 
back. They untied the end of the chain from the tree and wrapped it 
around my wrists. Bior prodded the poor creature and it walked into 
the woods on some unseen trail, the Nightbloods flanking us on each 
side. 
With each step the wolf -shifter took, the chains tugged at my 
wrists. Within a mile, the skin had been rubbed raw and my blood 
matted the animal’s fur. But I barely felt the pain. It was nothing 
compared to how badly m y heart hurt. I had trusted Lewon. I had 
actually thought he liked me. How could I have been such a fool 
again? First there had been Etlin, who had at least dumped me, 
instead of selling me to pay his debts. And now this. Did I have 
absolutely no sense of who people really were? Was I that blind and 
naive? Maybe Esgeril was right, and I was just a person who wanted 
someone else to take care of me. Well, there was no one to take care 
of me now. I was going to have to get out of this on my own. Which 
wouldn’t  be easy chained to the back of a wolf with only a view of 
the ground.  
"You should let me go know." I said with more bravery than I felt, 
craning my neck to see Bior. "It will go poorly for you otherwise,"  
Royal Dragoneer   148 
 "Oh, yeah?  Why is that?" Bior laughed. "Your father won’t risk 
you getting hurt. He will pay the ransom."  
I wasn’t as sure of that as he was, but admitting it wouldn’t help 
my cause. I knew Farean could hear me from a distance. When the 
Goblins had ambushed Lewon an d I on the road back to the swine 
farm, she’d flown to my rescue. But that had only been a few miles 
distance. Suzu was at least twenty miles from camp. Maybe more. 
"Farean,  I need you." I called earnestly in my head. " I’m in trouble.  Come  
help me. "Farean  was the one creature in this world I knew I could 
trust without fail. Not because I needed her, but because we needed 
each other. We had that unbreakable bond the Dragoneeers were 
always going on about.  
"You do know I’m a Dragoneer, right?" I told my capt ors. "My 
dragon will find me."  
"Oh, good," Bior said cheerily. The other one wasn’t much of a 
talker, it seemed. "Roland always has use for more dragons."  
"She wouldn’t follow him, because I won’t."  
"Roland will have no reason to keep you after the ransom is paid. 
He’ll find your dragon a rider more amenable to our cause."  
"That’s not possible," I reminded him "A dragon is bonded for 
life." 
"Is that what the Dragoneers told you?" He gave a full belly laugh. 
"You’re more naive than I thought, if you believe that."  
"What are you talking about?" I cried. "Can the dragon bond be 
broken?"  
"There is a witch, Ascatie," Bior said. "She lives in the North 
where wild dragons still roam. It is said she can perform the rite. This 
is what will be done to you and your dra gon if you call it here to 
rescue you."  
"No," I whispered. Meanwhile I was frantically telling Farean in 
my head. " Farean, " "listen to me." "Don’t  come. It isn’t safe for you. Stay 
away.  That’s  an order. " 
149  Ash Rober ts 
 I felt —something —this time. A sensation just on th e cusp of my 
awareness. Anger. No, fear and rage. Farean was getting closer. She 
was coming after me.  
In a panic, I squirmed against my bonds, grinding my injured 
wrists into the wolf’s shoulder.  
It growled, low in its throat, the vibration breaking the st ill of the 
night.  
"Quiet, Meril," Bior hissed at it. "Roland won’t release your pups 
if you get us caught."  
Meril whimpered and then became quiet. She picked up her pace, 
no doubt eager to be relieved of her load and returned to her family. 
The two Nightbl oods kept up easily, appearing for all the world as if 
the wolf’s trot was slowing them down. Maybe my parents would pay 
the ransom that Roland would demand. I had no idea.  
But I had to keep Farean away. Or at least warn her what to 
expect and not to come flying into a trap. " Farean ", I called again. 
"They know you’re  coming.  It’s a trap." "Be on guard.  Think  before you act." I 
kept trying to contact her as we crossed mile after nameless mile.  
The Nightbloods seemed agitated by our slow progress and 
conferr ed between themselves as the moons rose in the sky. "This is 
taking too long," Bior told his companion. "The wolf is weary, and 
the girl is heavy. I can move faster on my own and will go on ahead 
to tell Roland we have a prize." He tugged at the chain for good 
measure, and Meril and I both cried out in pain. Then, faster than I 
could blink, he disappeared into the night. The other Nightblood led 
the way in silence. He had not said a word since he’d sat down next 
to that traitorous Lewon, hours before.  
The d ragon moon set and then Kingsmoon, leaving just the red 
blood moon illuminating the path. I wasn’t superstitious but, given 
how the night was going, I shivered at the ill omen a lone blood 
moon conveyed.  
Despite the pain in my arms and back, my exhaustion eventually 
overtook me. I woke to see dawn peaking over the horizon as my 
Nightblood captor unwound my chains and pulled me from the back 
Royal Dragoneer   150 
 of Meril. A small stone home sat alone in the woods, the dawn -facing 
windows shut tight. No smoke rose from the chimne y. At first, I 
thought that meant the building was unoccupied, but then I realized 
that Nightbloods needed no fire for warmth or food.  
Bior opened the door at our arrival and waved us in, the silent 
Nightblood dragging me by my arm and Meril by her chains.  The 
door shut loudly behind us, and I turned to see him turn several large 
bolts as big around as my arm. A third Nightblood, portly by their 
standards, sat at an oak table counting stacks of money.  
"Did my father pay the ransom?" I asked hopefully. Meanw hile, 
Bior stuffed Meril into a cage that looked much too small for her. 
The other one pushed me roughly into a chair and wrapped me in a 
rope almost faster than I could see.  
"Why, my dear," replied the Nightblood who must be Roland, 
"this is just what my runecube clubs brought in last night. It’s not a 
tenth of what I will demand from your father." The Nightblood 
Change made it difficult to tell, but his head seemed not quite right 
and his skin had a greyer tone than the alabaster of his companions.  
"You’r e a Goblin," I gasped in realization.  
"I’m a Nightblood!" He brought his fist down on the table, 
cracking the wood in half. The gold and silver coins scattered across 
the room. A silver piece rolled into Meril’s cage. She jumped when it 
touched her, sending her into the bars, cowering and cringing away 
from it.  
"Never mention what a Nightblood was before," Roland said, 
coming around the table and grabbing me by the chin with his cold 
hand. "It is the rudest possible insult to our kind, and I’ve killed  
others for much less." He let go of my chin but kept his face close to 
mine. "Just be thankful you are worth so much, or you’d already be 
dead." His breath smelled of blood, warm and metallic. "Bior, pick 
up this mess." He waved his hand at the money on t he floor. "The 
sun is up, and I must go and rest."  
He left through a door in the back, though I got no details of the 
room or space beyond. It was too dark.  
151  Ash Rober ts 
 Bior and the other Nightblood, whose name I still didn’t know, 
stooped down and started picking up the money. The nameless one 
reached for the coin in Meril’s cage, and she snapped at him, earning 
her cage an angry kick. The Nightblood’s strength sent it rolling. She 
shrieked as she tumbled with it, and then lay there whimpering, but 
not moving, when it  stopped.  
These Nightbloods had no mercy. What would they do to Farean 
if she came? What would they do to me if she didn’t?  
Bior and his companion finished putting the scattered money back 
on the table. When they were done, the silent one cocked his head 
and went to the small window. He peered through it and grabbed a 
crossbow and some bolts hanging from a hook on the wall. He went 
back to the window, crouching down.  
Bior followed suit, grabbing another weapon from the wall. He 
took a position at a slit on the other side of the door.  
"Who is out there?" I asked them. Was it my father’s men or my 
dragon? " Farean,  if you’re  here, it’s a trap. The house is full of Nightbloods,  
and they have crossbows.  Be careful. " 
"Be quiet!" Bior barked.  
I obeyed, straining to  sense Farean’s presence or her thoughts, but 
I got nothing.  
Bior’s companion took aim with his bow and fired.  
"Careful," Bior warned him. "We don’t know how many there. 
Conserve our ammunition. Wait until you can see them clearly."  
"I thaw moothement," th e other Nightblood lisped.  
That was why he hadn’t spoken. I had heard of such things before, 
stories the maids told each other at night. In the human kingdom of 
Facal, they cut out the tongues of their remedial criminals, those who 
had committed an offense  not quite worthy of the death penalty. And 
when Nightbloods Changed, their bodies gained the ability to 
regenerate, even parts that had previously been removed. It was said 
the blood they drank did that. But that regeneration could take some 
time. This Ni ghtblood must be so young his tongue hadn’t yet 
completely grown back.  
Royal Dragoneer   152 
 Bior focused on the slit before him, attempting to find what had 
roused the other’s attention. I couldn’t see what they were seeing, but 
they both suddenly started shooting frantically,  barely taking the time 
to aim before firing.  
I heard a sound, maybe a growl or the beating of wings.  
Bior dropped his crossbow and retreated to the room where 
Roland had retired.  
The other Nightblood kept firing.  
Mortar dust and crumbled stone started rai ning down from the 
ceiling, and I ducked under Roland’s money table for protection.  
A hole opened up in the roof as more stone and debris came 
crashing down.  
Farean snaked her head through the hole and grabbed the lisping 
Nightblood in her jaws, shaking hi m back and forth before releasing 
him into the far wall.  
He slumped to the floor and didn’t move.  
"I’m here", Farean said. " And that man tasted  nasty. " 
 
 
 
"Farean!"  I cried, scanning as much of her as I could through the 
hole in the ceiling. I didn’t see any bolts sticking out of her hide. She 
was safe. I was safe.  
"Of course,  you’re  safe." Farean said, so confident in herself" . I would  
never let anyone  harm you. Oh, and I brought  the boss man." 
Colonel Authand entered the home through the door, rather than 
the dragon -sized hole in roof. He looked me over with a faint nod of 
his head, assessing the battle damage nonchalantly as if he’d done it a 
thousand times before.  Which he probably had.  
He seemed content that I was safe and rushed for the rear door, 
his short sword drawn in front of him. He threw it open, revealing a 
dark room with an open door on its back wall, open to the dim 
woods beyond. He searched the now emp ty room and came back 
into the main one just as two other Dragoneers came in the front 
door.  
"The outside is secure, sir," one of them said. Three vertical bars 
under his Dragon pin indicated he was in his third and final year of 
training. His sandy brown hair was trimmed close to his head, and his 
demeanor seemed closer to that of my father’s guards than what I 
was used to in the Dragoneers.  
"Well, they escaped out the back," Authand said. "Search again; 
they must have a secret passage somewhere. Farean, h ave a fly 
around and see if you notice anything from the air."  
"Yes, sir. "My dragon said like an obedient soldier, as she flapped 
her wings and took off from the roof, sending dust billowing down 
into the room.  
Royal Dragoneer   154 
 When the air had cleared, Authand sheathed his sword and pulled 
a small dagger from his belt. The other two Dragoneers back outside 
and headed in different directions. Authand cut through the ropes 
that bound me. I rubbed my bleeding wrists, wincing at the raw flesh.  
I knelt next to Meril’s cage. " We need to let her out. She is a 
prisoner here too."  
"She’s a Wolf -shifter, girl. And a badly treated one at that. Be 
careful she doesn’t bite the hand that feeds her."  
I ignored his warning, and opened the door to her cage, but Meril 
cringed at the back. I crawled halfway in. "It’s okay, we’re going to 
help you." I took another crawling move forward, and she snapped at 
me. I jumped back.  
"If you bite her, I’ll bite you, "I heard Farean say. But she wasn’t 
talking to me. She was talking to Meril, who cocked  her head and 
looked up through the hole in the roof, trembling.  
I use the distraction to lunge forward and pull the chain off her. 
Her demeanor changed immediately. She took a step towards me, but 
it did not seem threatening. I backed out of the cage, and  she 
followed me into the room. Once clear, she began to shift.  
Her snout pulled into her face and her legs straightened and 
lengthened. Fur dissolved into golden brown skin. Within moments, 
she returned to the form of a woman around thirty and attempted t o 
cover her nakedness with her arms.  
Authand went into the back room and returned with breaches and 
a coat that were both several sizes too large for her. He tossed them 
to her and turned away. She slipped into the pants, but they were so 
large that she co uld not keep them up. I gave her a length of the rope 
that had bound me, and she cinched it around her waist, then slid on 
the coat.  
She looked lost in it, but she tapped on the Colonel’s shoulder. 
"Thank you," she said when he turned. She eyed the corpse of the 
lisping Nightblood lying against the wall and turned her attention to 
me. "And thank you. They’ve kept me in wolf form for months, 
155  Ash Rober ts 
 doing their bidding. But I must find them. They still have my pups 
hidden somewhere. I have to find them."  
Authand nod ded. "The other two Dragoneers will stay behind and 
help you."  
She shook her head. "I appreciate the offer, but I can cover more 
ground on my own. And the Nightbloods will stay hidden as long as 
they can see or smell dragons."  
"Well, if there is anything w e can do," Authand said, "you can find 
us at Tulta to the East."  
"I will remember both of you," she said, bowing and turning 
toward the door, her nose sniffing the air. And then she was gone, 
springing into the woods like she was still in wolf form.  
"I didn’t find the other stinky  men", Farean said, sticking her huge head 
in the doorway.  
"It’s okay," I told her. " You saved my life today.  I’m so proud  of you." 
"And she should have never had to," Authand said, turning to me 
angrily. "What were you thinking, l eaving camp again without 
permission while you were still under punishment from the last time. 
Get on your dragon right now, a dragon you most certainly don’t 
deserve, and go straight back to camp, or I’ll sever the two of you 
myself."  
So, it could be done. Not that I ever wanted it to be. But why had 
everyone lied to me about everything?  
"What are you waiting for?" Authand barked.  
"I don’t have her harness," I sputtered.  
He marched outside, and I followed. He reached into a bag 
strapped to his dragon K orth’s back and retrieved Farean’s harness. 
"Lewon could not find your leathers," he said, handing it to me.  
"Lewon?" I asked, my voice rising. "Lewon knows exactly where 
my leathers are. They’re with his at the Pavilion in Suzu. Right where 
he left me." M y fists clenched, and Farean butted me with her snout, 
letting out a low growl.  
"Don’t try to blame this on him. He’s been at the camp since you 
disappeared," Authand said, reaching into a pouch on Korth’s side 
Royal Dragoneer   156 
 and pulling out a pair of leathers I recogniz ed as Esgeril’s. They 
wouldn’t fit, but they’d be close enough to get me home.  
I put them on, Farean fawning over me and making it harder. Her 
thoughts were an incoherent jumble. Most strongly, she seemed 
happy that I was safe, angry that I’d been captured , and sad that I’d 
abandoned her. This last one shocked me. " I didn’t  abandon  you. "I 
assured her" . I thought  I was going on a date. But it was a trap. Lewon  lied 
and turned  me over to the stinky  men. And now he’s back at camp pretending  he 
had nothing  to do with it." 
"Bad Lewon,  "she said. " I warned  you he doesn’t  smell right." 
"I know.  I should  have listened  to you. I’m sorry. "I stroked her snout 
with one hand, using her for balance as I pulled the leggings on, 
awkwardly, over my dress, then attached mys elf to the harness. If it 
was my word against Lewon’s concerning what had happened, who 
would people believe? It looked like Authand already believed 
Lewon. That wasn’t a good sign.  
Even now, Authand was standing next to Korth, his arms crossed 
and his foo t tapping impatiently. "You will follow me back," he said. 
"If you deviate from our flight path at all, Korth will force you to the 
ground and you will walk back to the camp. Is that clear?"  
I nodded and gulped.  
He mounted Korth, and I mounted Farean, hook ing in and 
following them into the sky. There was no conversation on the flight 
back.  
The sun reached its zenith as we landed. My stomach gurgled as 
the sounds and smells of the noon meal wafted from the mess hall. I 
hadn’t eaten for a long time and looked  longingly in that direction; 
but Authand pointed at me with his hook and said, "My office. 
Now."  
I made my best time ever removing Farean’s harness and trotted 
after him. Walking was awkward with my gown bunched up under 
the leggings. Every time I fell be hind, he stopped and glared until I 
caught up. At his office, the aide held the door open. As soon as I 
passed through, he left, closing the door behind us.  
157  Ash Rober ts 
 I’d been warned to avoid Authand’s wrath, but I seemed incapable 
of doing so. In fact, I appeared t o be a wrath -magnet. The Colonel 
waited until I entered his office and then slammed the door with 
enough force to shake the room.  
"What were you thinking?" He thundered, pacing the room in 
front of me. "I’ve seen a lot of new Dragoneers make very stupid an d 
dangerous mistakes, but this has got to take the cake. What did you 
do to attract the attention of someone as dangerous as Roland? 
You’re not playing runecubes, are you?"  
"No," I blurted. Without meaning to, I spread my arms wide, 
nearly sending my hand into his chest. "It was Lewon. He tricked 
me." 
"He tricked you into running off by yourself?"  
"He took me to Suzu for dinner. He said we had your 
permission."  
"Do you think I’m stupid?" That terrible claw thunked into the 
desk as he passed it. "Nobody had permission to leave until we were 
forced to go off on a wild dragon -chase looking for you. Lewon led 
the search until we found Farean flying by herself. Do you have any 
idea how dangerous these woods are for a lost young dragon right 
now?"  
"But—I—" I wante d to protest that Lewon had lied to him —that 
he’d sold me off without a thought for my well -being. But the words 
just wouldn’t come. I’d struggled all night with the fact that I’d 
poured my heart out to Lewon, and he used that very fact in a plan to 
barter  me for his illegal debts. Then he’d pretended to look for me —
to be the caring hero who’d lost the girl he was falling for. That was a 
level of deviousness that both scared and startled me. Lewon would 
not go down without a fight. If I accused him, I might  very well lose 
that battle. Badly. I was not anyone’s favorite at training camp, and 
he clearly was. Obviously, I would have to play this differently, like 
one of my father’s diplomatic negotiations. I was the little kingdom 
with no army. That meant I had  to bide my time and find something 
to bargain with.  
Royal Dragoneer   158 
 So, I hung my head as Authand continued his tirade, but I was no 
longer listening. I was pondering a plan —a way to get my revenge on 
Lewon that he would never see coming. I would show Authand, and 
Floria n, and Esgeril, and all the other Dragoneers what I was really 
made of. I was tired of having one foot in princess world, and one in 
Dragoneer world. If I wanted this life, I was going to have to grab it 
for myself. No one was going to hand it to me.  
"This  is your last chance, Kalia." Authand said, winding down. "If 
you’re caught leaving this camp again without permission, it will be 
the Dragon Caves for you."  
I gulped. The threat had more weight now. I’d only known it was 
a prison before. But from my class es I’d learned the guards were only 
there to prevent the criminals from escaping. There were no guards 
or rules inside the Caves.  
"You should also be aware that Roland never releases his 
hostages," Authand added. "He collects the ransom and kills them. 
And us rescuing you is going to be very bad for his reputation. His 
spies will be on the lookout for you. If you’re ever allowed to l eave 
camp grounds again, which I highly doubt, your life will be in 
constant danger. You will never be safe again because of your 
foolishness last night. Now, leave my sight."  
I didn’t make him repeat himself. The anteroom was still empty of 
the Colonel’s aide and I let myself out. I made my way towards the 
cafeteria. Service would have ended by now, but there might still be 
some food out.  
As I walked down the path, I saw Lewon in the distance, standing 
outside with Florian and her usual crew, waiting for m e, their eyes 
full of hate and malic e. 
 
 
 
I stopped in my tracks, evaluating the situation.  
If I turned and ran, they’d come after my like Nightbloods after a 
bleeding man.  
If I went forward, I’d have to say or do something to get past 
them.  
Either option was bad, but I stepped forward, facing them head -
on. 
I saw the surprise in their eyes when I kept coming. Good. Let 
them be the ones surprised for a change.  
As I got close to the group, they parted, glaring a t me. Lewon was 
there, right on the path. I had to brush his arm to get past and as I 
did I said, "Can’t get rid of me that easily."  
He took a step back, bumping into Florian behind him. I could see 
it in his eyes. He’d never expected me to make it back al ive. And on 
the off chance I did, he’d counted on me crying and accusing him. If 
I’d made a fool of myself, no one would have believed a word I said, 
and he’d have looked that much better for it.  
"And Roland still wants his debt paid," I whispered so no on e else 
could hear. "He’ll be coming for you." I had no idea if that were true, 
but I hoped it was.  
"What’s all the whispering about?" Someone near the rear of the 
pack demanded. "We all want to know what you did this time, 
Princess." He wasn’t using my tit le to be polite.  
"I’ll tell you what she did," Lewon said, smirking at me. "During 
our sword practice, she told me she loved me. Completely out of the 
Royal Dragoneer   160 
 blue. Like I would have anything to do with a court leech who’s lived 
her entire life off of the sweat of  others. Begged me to run away with 
her. And when I rejected her she ran off by herself, crying like a 
baby, and the Colonel had to go chasing after her."  
The others laughed, and Lewon grinned a sick twisted smile.  
"It’s true," I said, smiling back. "I tho ught I loved him, but then I 
realized how small his dragon is. And you know what they say about 
a man’s dragon matching the size of his…"  
Several people laughed despite themselves, and Lewon whirled 
toward them, glaring.  
Meanwhile, I slipped past and into the cafeteria, but I’d lost my 
appetite.  
I waited a few minutes, watching the crowd outside the door 
disperse, then made my way to the barracks as the sky darkened and 
thunder rolled in the distance. Maybe Lewon would get stuck by 
lightning. " Hey, a girl could hope." 
As I walked down the hall toward my room, I saw Esgeril coming 
out of hers. "Esgeril, I —" 
"I told you not to go." Anger rippled through her body, causing 
her to shake. "I warned you and look what happened."  
"Hey." In the past twenty -four hours,  I had been tricked, sold, 
bound, rescued, scolded, threatened, and verbally attacked. I refused 
to be pushed around any further. "You know what? I thought you 
were my friend. But you’re just like everyone else here." I stepped 
around her and stomped to my  room, slamming the door behind me.  
 
 
 
For weeks after the Lewon incident, I kept my head down and did 
my work. I attended all my classes, accepted my accumulated 
punishments, followed every rule, and tried as hard as I could to stay 
out of Authand’s office. That didn’t mean anyone liked me for it. 
They didn’t. If anything, it made Lewon, Florian, and their gang more 
vicious. They wanted me to mess up. They always had. Even Esgeril 
stayed clear of me, and I d idn’t blame her. Association with me 
would have just put her in the line of fire.  
The only friend I had left was Farean. Stretching the limits of our 
bond had brought us closer together. I trusted her in ways I hadn’t 
realized were possible. She no longer had to seek out my touch. I 
freely gave it. I might never forgive the Orcs or the dragon that killed 
my grandfather. But I no longer blamed Farean for an event that 
happened before she hatched.  
I was determined to keep my nose clean and become the best 
damn Dragoneer anyone had ever seen. I'd qualify for the Dragon 
Run and earn the respect I was due that way.  
The Dragon Moon had eclipsed the Kingsmoon once more. My 
room in the girls' barracks was positioned so they both shone in my 
window. On those nights, I couldn't get any sleep due to their glare. 
It was hard to believe I’d been training for half a year, but the 
monotony was getting to me, and I felt so restless. Technically, going 
for a walk after curfew was against the rules. But I yearned for time 
to m yself. So, I waited a few hours for the rest of the camp to settle 
into slumber and slipped my boots onto my feet.  
Royal Dragoneer   162 
 Glancing out the door, the coast was clear, and I tiptoed down the 
hall. I continued to the stairwell. Two steps down, I heard a door 
open.  
"Who’s there?" Florian’s groggy voice called out. I didn’t wait for 
her discover me. I took the stairs three at a time down to the ground 
floor and slipped quietly out the door. I dove into a shrub and lay on 
the damp earth with juniper scratching at my nec k. 
I waited there, catching my breath, but no one came after me. 
Florian must have just gone back to bed, thankfully.  
A candle illuminated the heads of Florian and a third year who 
proctored our hall. "I heard somebody in the stairs. They must be out 
here, " Florian explained. "I bet it was that ‘I’m better than everyone’ 
princess."  
The proctor shook her head in the dim flame. "Well, there’s 
nobody out here now. Go back to bed. I’ll stand a watch to catch 
them when they try to sneak back in."  
"What if it was  a boy sneaking back out after invading our 
barracks?" Florian stomped her foot, her slipper landing inches from 
my hand. I jerked it back instinctively, and the juniper shook.  
They noticed the motion and turned towards the shrub. I stayed as 
still as poss ible and the proctor turned back to Florian, apparently 
convinced it had been an animal. "I thought you said it was Kalia. 
Don’t waste my time making up stories. Go to bed, Florian, before I 
make you stand the watch by yourself."  
She mumbled something inau dible and shuffled back inside. The 
proctor held the candle up and peered into the darkness before 
returning inside. I waited several more minutes before crawling back 
out into the open.  
I didn't want to risk being seen again, so I made my way to the 
boath ouse. The sentries on night duty rarely ever looked in the 
direction of the lake, because Goblins despised water and did 
everything they could to avoid it. Any eyes searching for threats 
tonight would be pointed the other direction. There was already a 
canoe missing, which was odd. Maybe some other cadet had the 
163  Ash Rober ts 
 same idea as me for an evening of alone time. Well, if they had, it 
wasn't like they'd be in a position to report me.  
I slid a canoe into the water and paddled to the beach where 
Lewon and I had tra ined. I hadn't been back since that night. 
Thoughts of sharpening the practice sword and using it against him 
came to me, but I shook my head to clear my mind and set off into 
the woods.  
I heard the crack of a branch in the trees. But it was probably just 
a squirrel. Since Farean had hatched, all my senses had become 
keener. I wanted to ask Esgeril if that was normal or another one of 
my freak abilities. But we had to be on speaking terms for that.  
But squirrels didn't talk and I could hear voices as well. They were 
low and still far off, but I wasn't alone out here. I recalled Authand's 
warning about Roland. Was he that thirsty for revenge that he'd risk 
coming to the camp? I inched closer; I needed to know what I was 
up against.  
"Does he think I'd really d ouble cross him like that?" Lewon said 
in an agitated whisper. "She called her dragon. How was I supposed 
to know she could do that? We were over ten leagues away. I can 
only reach Calen from three."  
"You cost Roland his prize. And he always collects. If n ot the girl, 
then you," Bior said.  
"But no one would pay a ransom for me."  
"Roland will think of a use for you." From my vantage point, I 
could see Bior's fangs gleam in the moonlight.  
If Bior was here, there would be other Nightbloods about.  
That was the last thought I had before the flash of pain at the back 
of my head and everything went dark.  
I woke slowly. My head throbbed and acrid smoke wafted in my 
face carried by a light breeze. I opened my eyes to find myself loosely 
tied to a huge boulder.  
As my vision adjusted to the dim light of the fire, I saw Roland 
sitting in an ornate wooden chair. It seemed out of place surrounded 
by the crude treatments of a military unit in the field behind him, but 
Royal Dragoneer   164 
 Roland did have certain flair. He stared at me, ob viously aware I had 
returned to consciousness.  
"So, the Princess is the first to wake," he said, holding out his 
hand to Bior who stood to his right. "Bior, you owe me ten gold 
coins. I told you she was the tough one. The boy is still drooling in 
his sleep ." 
"The boy? What  boy?" I rolled my aching head gently to the right, 
following Bior’s glaring glance, and found myself face -to-face with 
Lewon. We were tied to the same tree. His shoulder was touching 
mine, and his once handsome face was a dark swollen bru ise. Slowly, 
my foggy brain put two -and-two together. They hadn’t just taken me 
from training camp. They’d taken Lewon, too.  
"I hit him much harder than Pani hit her," Bior said, handing a 
fistful of coins to his boss.  
"Well, wake him up then," Roland comm anded. "Douse him with 
a bucket of water or something. I don’t want to have to explain all 
my delectable plans for them twice."  
So, Bior fetched a bucket of water and poured it over Lewon’s 
head. Of course, it hit me too, waking me up even more.  
Lewon coug hed like he was drowning, his head lolling back and 
forth, his eyes rolling open and squinting against the glare of the 
firelight.  
"I would have come willingly, Roland," he sputtered. "You didn’t 
have to have your lapdog punch me in the face."  
"Not if you’ d known what I have planned," Roland said. "I 
wouldn't normally lower myself to such rough conditions as this, but 
you are worth it. Thanks to your betrayal," Roland pointed a long 
finger at me, "she escaped."  
"I told Bior, I had no part of that." Lewon sp at. "It’s not my fault 
you’re incompetent."  
Bior bared his fangs. "Let me drain him, boss."  
Roland waved him off. "As much as I'd like to be rid of the 
troublemaker, we need him alive for now. His fate will be that of the 
girl's. No one has escaped me befo re. It’s bad for business. Instead of 
165  Ash Rober ts 
 ransom, I have a more permanent solution for the two of you. I think 
I will turn you over to my brother."  
I blinked, not understanding, my headache making it even harder 
to think. A Goblin with graying hair came forwar d, out of the 
shadows. I did not know their military insignia well, but he seemed to 
be some sort of high ranking official. As he stepped nearer to Roland 
and into the firelight, I could see the family resemblance.  
"This is my younger brother, Ariz, low ge neral of the Goblin 
armies." Roland turned to Aziz. "My brother, I have brought you two 
dragons tonight."  
With Ariz standing next to him, Roland seemed almost humble. 
He kept his eyes down respectfully, as one might do in the presence 
of a noble. Roland bo wed to no king, but next to his sibling, he acted 
like a servant. Ariz, for his part stood with the relaxed confidence of 
someone who had spent a lifetime leading others. His face conveyed 
no love for his brother. To him, Roland was just another underling.  
"I imagine you expect extra payment for it," the Goblin general 
hissed.  
"Consider her a gift," Roland said. "  
"We're not family!" Ariz snapped. "You forsook your family to 
become this abomination." His hand swept over Roland's form.  
"Father didn't exactly  give me a choice, did he?" Roland' 
protested. "If my maker hadn't found me, I would be dead."  
"That would have been better," Aziz said, cold -heartedly. "Collect 
your money and leave us."  
Roland nodded. "The witch will be here within the hour." He got 
up, glancing at Bior who had stood silently beside his boss 
throughout the entire exchange. Then, they both melted into the 
shadows of the forest, taking Roland’s odd chair with them.  
Ariz approached the stone Lewon and I were bound to and 
examined me. "You ar e very valuable, Princess," he said, his breath 
wafting across my face. "And your beasts will provide much 
nourishment to my soldiers. But never fear. I will return you to your 
father. Well, part of you, at least."  
Royal Dragoneer   166 
 I shivered at his threat. Then I remember ed my years of training in 
Kastea. Squaring my shoulders as much as the rope allowed, I looked 
him in the eye. "I'm afraid you’ve wasted your time. Our dragons 
aren’t with us. Farean and Calen are still safe back at camp."  
Ariz laughed,  a hoarse, guttural sound that reminded me of a dying 
animal. "They will come," he said. "You are too precious to them, 
because of that slavery you have been forced into by your false god. 
We seek merely to free you. The world will thank us one day for 
ridding you of those vile creatures."  
"If you live off the meat of gross animals," I said. "It's a surprise 
you didn’t succumb to cannibalism ages ago."  
Lewon snorted out a laugh.  
Ariz maintained a calm facade, but his eyes burned with rage. "I 
hear the witch 's spell is painful." The corners of his lips twitched, like 
he was trying to smile but couldn't remember how. "I wish I could 
watch, but a General's work is never done."  
After he walked away into the darkness, I craned my head towards 
Lewon. "What's he ta lking about?"  
The color was gone from his face. "There are stories. Oh, gods, I 
thought they were just stories. There are witches to the north. 
Outcasts from the seven kingdoms who live among the feral dragons 
in the mountains. They're said to train in the  old magics. Perversions 
of the things we used to be able to do. They say they have a spell to 
break the bond between dragon and rider."  
"But Authand said…" The rest of my protest died on my lips. It 
was hard to imagine six months ago that I’d wanted the v ery thing 
Lewon was talking about. Now, the thought repulsed me.  
"He probably doesn't believe the stories. They're things whispered 
in the dark, designed to scare children. Besides, if it is true, it doesn't 
end well for the dragon. It's like they're dead inside. And the rider 
doesn't fare much better."  
I shivered. "Why would Ariz bother with it then? Why not just kill 
us?" 
167  Ash Rober ts 
 Lewon shook his head. "I think he thinks he is saving us from the 
dragons, like they control us instead of the other way round."  
"Farea n, can you hear me? Don’t  come for me. It’s too dangerous.  Just get 
Authand. "Through our connection, I got nothing but a faint sensation 
of rushing wind. She must be sleeping. She hadn’t heard me, but it 
also meant that she was safe.  
Beside me, lines creas ed Lewon’s forehead. "Calen’s not answering 
me. We should still be in range. I don’t think they took us that far."  
A Goblin soldier approached us carrying an earthen cup. He 
pressed it to my lips. He was a full head shorter than me and had to 
raise it over  his head to reach. "Drink."  
The thin, grey liquid bubbled as if boiling, but gave off no heat. It 
smelled like a wine that had gone rancid in the skin. I pursed my lips 
against it, knowing that whatever it was, it was nothing good.  
Lewon kicked at him. Ou r feet had been tied, but apparently he’d 
worked his foot out of his boot. "Get that away from us, greyskin."  
The kick jostled the soldier, but he didn’t spill the drink. He pulled 
a dagger from his belt andpressed it against my right wrist, 
threatening to  sever my hand. He probably assumed it was my lesser 
one. "The General wantsss you alive, but you don’t have to be in one 
piece."  
I gulped and opened my mouth. He forced the liquid down; it 
tasted worse than it smelled. "What was that?"  
"It will confuse yo ur dragons and make them easier to capture."  
I whimpered. Already, my mind felt fuzzy. Farean was rousing, but 
her thoughts didn’t make sense. "Why am I the only one who has to 
drink it?"  
Lewon shot me a dirty look. Calling attention to a potential 
advanta ge wasn’t the best plan.  
The soldier laughed, a wet, raspy sound. I’d cover my ears if I 
could move. "You both received a dose before you woke. His dragon 
is already here. Yours just needed more encouragement."  
A second soldier approached. "The witch is he re. The General 
wants the boy."  
Royal Dragoneer   168 
 With the dagger still in his hand, the first one cut the knot holding 
the ropes. I was still secured to the tree, but Lewon lunged forward.  
The second soldier wrapped the loose end of the rope around 
Lewon's neck. His eyes b ulged as it dug into his skin and cut off his 
air supply. The Goblin wrapped more rope around his wrists before 
letting the loop around his neck slacken. Lewon gasped in deep 
lungsful of air before the soldier kicked him. "It's time for you to 
meet your dr agon for the last time.  
They left me alone with my thoughts, which I directed at Farean 
through our now fuzzy connection. " Please  don't come. Just get Authand.  
It's too dangerous  for you."No coherent response came back, just a vague 
feeling of confusion and rage.  
The Goblins lit a fire in a nearby clearing that dwarfed the one I 
was in. On one side of it, they secured Lewon to another tree. 
Directly across the bonfire, Calen was laying on his  side with his legs 
bound together. Braided vines wrapped around his neck. They were 
attached to a similar loop being secured around Lewon's neck.  
Ariz was nowhere in sight, but a woman shrouded in dark robes 
directed the effort. I couldn't tell her race. The firelight cast weird 
shadows over her features, and a hood covered most of her head. 
This must be the witch who would sunder the bond between Farean 
and me, if she came here. This was the person who would rob me of 
the one thing I'd come to value more than my own life.  
The leaves rustled around me as if there was a wind, but I felt 
none. A sentry near the clearing let out a yell and then was gone. The 
scream alerted the others, and a company of Goblins stationed in the 
darkness came forward. A flash of blue shot out from the trees and 
grabbed another before disappearing again into the night sky.  
Archers shot bolts and arrows into the dark. One must have found 
its mark, because I heard Farean scream, both aloud and in my head. 
She dropped her captive. He landed not twenty feet from me with a 
crunch and didn't move.  
169  Ash Rober ts 
 I felt a hand on my shoulder and jumped as much as my bindings 
would allow. Meril crossed into my field of vision. "You saved me, 
and through that, my pups. I have come to repay that debt."  
I nodded but said nothing. She pulled at the ropes, but the knots 
were too tight. She shook her head and took a step back. Her hand 
folded before my eyes, her finger shortening and growing fur. The 
transformation looked extremely painful, but she stood there w ith 
only a grimace.  
She exhaled slowly. Sweat dotted her forehead and her skin was 
almost as pale as Roland’s had been. She flicked her wrist and a long 
serrated claw unfolded from her body. She returned her attention to 
me and used it on the rope, slicing  it like it was nothing. Then she 
used her normal human hand to pull the ruins of the rope away from 
me. 
Meril cocked her head at some sound that even my own keen 
hearing couldn't discern. A girl about five years old stumbled into the 
clearing wearing noth ing but a tattered blouse that reached her knees. 
Behind him came a boy of the same age. Instead of clothing, brown 
fur covered all of his body save his face.  
"Tem, Bere, I told you to wait for me in the den," Meril scolded 
with a growl in the back of her throat.  
"We were bored," the girl whined.  
"I told Tem to stay, but she wouldn't listen," the boy added.  
Meril was about to say something, but suddenly pounced at the 
boy instead. She transformed into a wolf mid leap. Bere's eyes 
widened and dropped to the ground as his body changed shape as 
well. Meril's fangs dug into the arm of a Goblin who'd snuck behind 
the boy with a raised knife. The Goblin screamed as she mauled him, 
slicing gashes across his neck he would not survive.  
But the noise had alerted the t roops and a contingent from the 
ones surrounding Farean broke off in our direction.  
"Save your dragon," Meril growled. Her words came through 
slurred by the shape of her wolf mouth. "I can't fight them alone."  
Royal Dragoneer   170 
 I looked back at Farean again. She was surroun ded by Goblins. 
Arrows hampered her wing and taking to the air seemed unlikely at 
this point. Farther off, the witch hurried to complete the preparations 
to rip the dragon bond from Lewon. I wouldn't be able to free him in 
time to be any help.  
I spied a ra ck of swords near the line of tents. I grabbed one and 
charged for the nearest beast. The blade's balance was different from 
the one I was used to, and my first couple of thrusts were awkward 
and missed their mark.  
Two turned from Farean, aiming their bows  at me. I thrust at the 
one on the right, slicing through the bow string and pulling the 
weapon from her hands while she fell back. I flung it towards her 
companion as he was notching his arrow. He flinched as the ruined 
bow clattered against his body.  
I used the distraction to attack. His leather armor held against my 
swing, but it knocked him to the ground. He dropped the bow and 
pulled out a dagger. While my sword had more reach, he undoubtedly 
had more training.  
Farean shrieked and I took my eye off my opponent to see an 
arrow lodged between her scales near the wing joint. Then the 
Goblin was upon me. I attempted to block, but steel bit into my 
unprotected forearm, carving a deep gash. I dropped the sword as 
blood welled to the surface.  
I went for the sw ord on the ground, but he was faster and kicked 
it away. He lunged again. I tried to roll but he leapt on top of me, 
pinning me to the mud. My mind flashed through defenses Lewon 
had taught me, but before I could implement one, the Goblin 
screamed and drop ped his weapon, falling on top of me.  
I grunted, pushing his writhing body to the side, only to reveal 
Tem with his bloody boot in her mouth. Gouges ran the length of his 
calf with bits of leather stuck in the wounds. She spit out the boot 
and ran off towa rds another unsuspecting Goblin, her tail wagging 
behind her.  
171  Ash Rober ts 
 I reached for my sword, but when I turned back around, the 
Goblin was gone. I looked up to see him dangling from Farean's 
jaws. A sickening crunch filled the air as she severed his body in half.  
She also had the she -Goblin pinned under her paw, which she 
lifted, eyeing the thing like a giant cat with a mouse. She lifted her 
foot, and the Goblin crab -walked backwards. Farean reared and 
landed with a thud pushing her claw through the Goblin’s chest . 
I struggled to keep the contents of my stomach intact.A tortured 
yelp from Lewon brought my attention back to his situation. The 
witch had finished the preparations and was now working on 
channeling  magic into the cable physically linking him to his dragon. 
Green sparks danced along its length.  
I glanced over at the witch. Her eyes were rolled back into her 
head. Unless she could magically sense me, she wouldn’t be able to 
stop me.  
I kept my head on a swivel as I made my way over to Lewon. 
Unless they had fled, Ariz and the first two soldiers we’d seen were 
still somewhere nearby.  
As I approached, however, rage filled me. Lewon had gotten me 
kidnapped, not just once, but twice. He’d led me on and ruin ed my 
relationship with Esgeril. Friendship, I corrected myself, coming to a 
stop just a few feet from where Lewon was bound. What I’d lost with 
Esgeril was a friendship, not a romance. Although, if I was being 
honest with myself, if she’d been a boy, I mi ght never have fallen for 
Lewon’s lies.  
"Help me," he croaked, returning me to the present.  
"Why should I?" I shot back. "All of this is your fault."  
"I know. I’m sorry." His breath came in short, jagged bursts. 
"None of this was supposed to happen. Roland  was just going to 
rough you up a little, just for show, until your father delivered the 
ransom. Nobody was supposed to get hurt."  
I stomped my foot."You’re just sorry because Roland thinks you 
double crossed him."  
Royal Dragoneer   172 
 "No, I am. Besides you need me. Do you th ink you can defeat a 
Goblin general on your own?"  
He had a point, but then again, Meril was still here. As if on cue, 
she trotted up to us. Blood matted her fur, but it didn’t appear to be 
hers. Behind her, Tem and Bere fought over a severed Goblin leg.  
"My debt is repaid," she said. "Now I must take my pups back to 
safety."  
I bowed before her. "Thank you. It is now I, who am in your 
debt." And then she and her pups still disappeared into the woods 
faster than my eyes could follow.  
I turned back to Lewon. " Okay, I guess I’m stuck with you." I 
sawed through his bindings with my sword until he was free. He 
yanked the braided vines off his head, which set off a burst in the 
bonfire.  
That got the witch’s attention. She yelled as if the pain Lewon had 
been feelin g had rebounded back on her. She looked around and saw 
that the Goblins who had been hired to guard her were gone. She 
clapped her hands and transformed into an eagle, flying away.  
Lewon crossed the clearing to where Calen still lay bound. 
Grabbing a dagge r from one of the fallen Goblins, he made quick 
work of freeing his dragon. He fashioned a crude harness not unlike 
the one I’d first worn with Farean, and climbed onto Calen’s back.  
"What are you doing? Ariz is still out there," I said.  
"That’s your probl em," he sneered. "I need to get back before 
Authand notices I’m missing."  
"If you leave me here, I’ll tell Authand that you’re working with 
Roland."  
He shook his head."If you make it back, you’d do best to keep 
your mouth shut. What’s Authand going to do i f he finds out you 
were sneaking out after curfew?"  
"So were you."  
"I’ll be getting back a bit later than expected, but my alibi is 
already secure." With that, they lifted off and disappeared into the 
night.  
173  Ash Rober ts 
 I shook my head. As much as I hated to admit it,  he was probably 
right. I’d broken curfew and if the Goblins were really this close to 
Tulta, they might have captured me without Lewon’s help. I crossed 
the muddy ground to Farean’s side as she licked the blood from her 
foot. My stomach somersaulted again  before I looked away.  
"The tree". I could sense her pointing in my mind and looked in 
that direction  
His lieutenant leapt from the tree onto her back, plunging another 
dagger in the gap between her scales. She screamed and reared, but 
he kept his hold on the blade buried between her shoulders. I 
climbed up her leg and faced him. He looked from me to the dagger 
as if trying to decide to continue with Ariz’s order or defend himself.  
I took a step forward and he yanked the blade from Farean’s hide. 
He stood, bringing it into a guard position. The other soldier 
dropped to Farean’s back as well, leaving Ariz alone in the tree.  
The second soldier dropped to a knee and slid his own dagger into 
a fresh wound. Farean snapped and thrashed, sending the lieutenant 
and me to our knees as we struggled to keep from being thrown.  
He rose to his feet, but I stayed low. He advanced while I faked a 
struggle to regain my balance. He took slow, shuffling steps across 
Farean’s back, but I held my position. He came within striking  
distance and shifted his grip on the hilt. I pushed up and knocked 
him clear off Farean’s back.  
She dove at the body and came up again with the Goblins leg in 
her mouth, her teeth streaked with red. The other Goblin’s eyes went 
wide, and I rushed him. He knelt for the dagger, but I reached him 
first. My momentum pushed us both off Farean’s back.  
I landed on top and punched him in the face. His head bounced 
against a rock, and I hit him again. Eyes rolled back in their sockets, 
but still I continued until h e laid there unmoving and my hands 
throbbed from the impact.  
I remembered Ariz and looked up but the coward was gone. I 
scanned the tree line in search of him, but Farean’s plaintive cries 
Royal Dragoneer   174 
 brought my attention back to her. I scrambled up her side and pulle d 
the blade from where is had been buried.  
It hurts,  she whimpered as I withdrew it. Along with the two 
gouges on her back, her wings were torn and bleeding. A scale was 
missing from her leg. I took in the damage she had taken while 
defending me. All thoug hts of leaving vanished and anger grew in my 
breast, that she’d been hurt for my sake.  
I went through and removed the bolts and arrows that had lodged 
between scales. Her wings were in even worse shape than I had 
previously believed. Farean would not fly a gain tonight, if she ever 
reached the air again. I placed my body against hers, my hands warm 
where they touched her. I looked again, and they glowed with soft 
light. I pressed them against a hole in her wing.  
The wound glowed with the same light from my h ands. They grew 
warm, even painful, but I continued until I saw the edges knit 
themselves back together. My body grew warm and steadily weaker as 
the life energy was sucked from me.  
I pulled away and the hole was gone, replaced by translucent blue 
skin tha t covered her wings. I did this on the next wound, and the 
one after, taking my time on each on. "Is that better?" The glow 
faded from my hands, and I rubbed her neck ridge.  
My stomach  hurts"." She rubbed at her belly with a hind leg for 
effect. I rushed o ver to feel for myself, although I had no clue what I 
was actually looking for. I think I ate something  rotten.  
I swatted her rump for the bad joke but laughed in spite of myself. 
I looked at the sky. The Kingsmoon was in danger of setting now. 
Soon the su n would poke above the horizon and reveal our absence 
to the other Dragoneers.  
Now that Farean had healed enough to fly, I needed to figure out 
how to secure myself. I had my half of the harness, but that didn’t do 
much good when Farean’s half lay safely t ucked in its storage box 
back at camp. The remainder of the ropes wouldn’t provide enough 
cordage. I scanned the meager tents and found a likely target. Taking 
care to not run afoul of the stakes, I picked my way across the camp 
175  Ash Rober ts 
 to it. Pulling my Goblin bl ade in front of me, I pulled the flap aside 
and looked in.  
No foes waited inside, but it wasn’t empty. As I’d suspected, their 
supplies lay stacked in packs. I tried hefting one, barely clearing the 
ground. While the elves towered over the vile creatures, they had the 
superior strength. I lowered the pack again and instead sifted through 
the contents. Mostly the packs contained rations of vile meats 
wrapped in oilcloth, but in a side pouch, I found a length of sturdy 
looking rope.  
I ran back to Farean and c oiled it around her chest, securing it 
with the knots I’d been learning at the camp. I tied loops at the ends 
and triple knotted them to be sure. Climbing to my spot on her back, 
I clipped into these loops and gave them a tentative pull. I tracked 
the King smoon once more; no more than an hour remained until 
dawn and even less by the tower’s standards.  
"Go," I urged her, and she leapt into the air. Up in the sky, the 
first strands of pink light of predawn glowed over the horizon. I 
urged her faster, but the sky lightened faster than we could fly.  
A mile from camp, Farean dove back into the trees. It was darker 
there, and I could barely make out the ends of her wings, but she 
deftly swerved through the dense foliage until she cleared it at the 
lake. 
The tower would read dawn in minutes now. We flew low to avoid 
detection, the pale blue of her scales being masked by the dark water. 
I could feel the cool air steaming from the surface, and I pulled my 
feet up unconsciously to keep them from getting wet.  
We cleared  the lake and continued just above the ground, eddies 
of dust swirling around us with each powerful flap. She didn’t begin 
slowing until almost upon the stable wall. The opening wouldn’t 
allow her full wingspan and she tucked them in. We cleared the 
openin g by inches and inside the room that no longer seemed so 
cavernous, she spread out again and beat in reverse to slow down 
while grabbing at the ground.  
Royal Dragoneer   176 
 Her momentum stopped, and I lurched forward but my knots 
held. The morning horn sounded; I couldn’t make  it back to the 
barracks now. Instead, I untied the rope and shoved it in my pack 
before crawling into the crook over her foreleg. Her breathing 
labored but slowed as I pressed against her. My own breath was 
ragged as well. What would they do when they fou nd me here? There 
was nothing I could do and leaving would only make my discovery 
more suspicious.  
Farean began snoring. The exertions and battles of the day were 
over, and dragons need their rest. Her sleep affected me as well. I 
struggled for several min utes, but the siren song of slumber soon 
overtook me.  
 
 
 
Farean and I flew above the treetops as she practiced her 
maneuvers. She swooped low above the trees and I caught my ankle 
on an errant branch. "Hey, careful." She ignored me as she rose again 
and then I hit another branch.  
I opened my eyes. Authand looked down at me as he tapped the 
side of his steel claw against his leather breeches. I blinked a couple 
times and suppressed a yawn. Judging by the shadows, I couldn’t 
have slept more than an hour.  
"Didn’t we just have this conversation? I haven’t even had a meal 
yet since I warned you what would happen if you left camp without 
permission again.  
All traces of sleep left my brain and I stood before him . "I didn’t 
leave camp. I slept in the stables."  
He took a deep breath and held it for a moment before exhaling 
slowly. "Then why are you in your harness?"  
"I wasn’t going to sleep in the dirt in my nightgown." The words 
left my lips before I had even real ized that I had the lie ready -made. I 
looked at my hands; they were caked in dirt with a red smudge giving 
away my fight with the Goblins. I rubbed it against my thigh.  
His eyes followed the motion but he just chuckled.  
"Now I know that the others have bee n giving you a hard time 
here, but I can’t have you violating curfew and coming to the stables 
at all hours of the night either." He paced the small space, waking 
Farean. She lifted her head and looked from him to me, not willing to 
ask her question with s o many telepathic ears present.  
Royal Dragoneer   178 
 I wasn’t sure how much I could say to her either so I simply sent 
her a feeling of warmth and contentment and hoped she got the 
message. Can you sleep with me more often?  The question, benign as it 
was, held volumes of conve rsation.  
"The Colonel was just saying that I couldn’t before you woke." I 
shook my head. I took a step closer to her and hugged her as she 
nuzzled against my chest.  
"I understand the appeal. I often wish that Korth and I were still 
out in the field where w e were rarely more than a few feet from one 
another. But we have rules for a reason. This is your last chance to 
start following them. ALL of them."  
"Yes, sir." Calling the instructors sir instead of their given name 
still required conscious thought, but I  thought the moment warranted 
it. 
"For your punishment, you must skip breakfast and take Farean 
down to the lake to clean her. She must have been rolling in some 
clay mud. It almost looks as if someone bled out all over her."  
"Yes, sir," I repeated. I knew  better than to argue or question the 
boon I’d been given. Instead, I grabbed the bag that had given me 
away and rushed through the still open door for the barracks. "Meet 
me at the lake in ten minutes," I called over my shoulder.  
I turned back to the path  just in time to bowl Esgeril over. She let 
out a little shriek as she tumbled and fell. I reached out a hand to 
help her up, but she recoiled away from me.  
"I’m sorry." I couldn’t meet her eyes. Instead, I found myself 
inspecting the Aluminte rings on the  front of my harness.  
"You are sorry," she muttered. "You have got to be the sorriest 
excuse for a Dragoneer I have ever seen." She got up and pushed 
passed me, knocking me on the shoulder as she went by, despite the 
fact that there was plenty of room on t he path for both of us. Maybe 
I deserved it for running her down.  
I kicked at a stray rock, watching it bounce down the cobblestone 
path before it came to a stop between the rough stones. She’d 
warned me about Lewon, and I hadn’t listened. She’d tried to b e a 
179  Ash Rober ts 
 friend, and I’d rejected her. But to say I was a bad Dragoneer after all 
the effort I’d put in? That really hurt.  
I didn’t see her taking on a company of Goblins and an evil witch. 
I almost wished Lewon and I had gotten caught returning, so I didn’t 
have to lie about that feat. I was no longer the soft and frivolous girl 
who’d run away at the hatching. Now the night dress scrunched 
under my harness barely contained the muscles I’d built in my 
shoulders from the physical activity around camp.  
I might eve n take Florian in a fair fight, not that I expected her 
capable of such a thing. Lewon’s lessons had included hand to hand 
combat. He’d gotten angry because I always lost those sessions, but 
in fact, I let him win towards the end, relishing being pinned to  the 
ground underneath him. What an idiot I’d been to let those feelings 
grow for someone so unworthy of them.  
All I felt now was contempt for Lewon. But he’d earned it. Had I 
been a fool to go back for him and risk Farean and myself? Probably. 
But I’d do it again, even knowing he wouldn’t do the same for me. I 
was learning I couldn’t let what other people did change who I was. 
Besides, his dragon hadn’t deserved to be severed, even if Lewon 
had. 
After I changed and had breakfast, I scrubbed Farean until he r 
scales shone, while she regaled me with stories of our victory as if I 
hadn’t been there. And I had to remind her that it was our little 
secret. It took all morning, but I lifted each scale to clean the grime 
underneath and polished the tops. I squinted,  looking at her as she 
reflected the brilliance of the sun.  
Between my lack of sleep and the effort I’d put into cleaning, 
curling up against Farean where she dozed in the sand seemed 
tempting. But the lunch bell rang, and my stomach reminded me I’d 
been m issing too many meals lately.  
The hall went silent as I entered, and I felt hundreds of eyes on 
me as I made my way to the line. The silence was short lived, 
however, and soon the buzz of voices resumed. As I passed the 
Royal Dragoneer   180 
 tables, I discovered much of it was gossip about me, meant for me to 
overhear. I simply ignored it and took my food to an empty table.  
A group of third year girls sat at the table beside me. They 
watched me sit and, as if a single entity with ten legs and ten arms, 
stood and moved to a table  farther away.  
Empty tables now surrounded me. That was fine by me. Alone, I 
couldn’t hear the barbs being spoken a little too loudly. The room 
suddenly fell silent, and I looked up to see Colonel Authand standing 
at the front.  
"I have put a signup sheet outside," he announced. "Anyone 
wishing to compete for a slot at the Darnetan Dragon Run must 
submit their name by the end of the day. Your instructors will 
consider your progress in all areas and five of you will be chosen to 
represent the training ground s." 
The hall broke into loud murmuring. If I’d had anyone to talk to, I 
would have joined in. This could be my chance to prove my worth 
and be taken seriously. I shoveled my lunch down and got up to 
dump my trash.  
On the way out the door, I noticed Authand  staring at me from 
the teacher’s table. Were his eyes daring me to sign -up, or daring me 
not too?  
As promised, a sheet had been nailed to the wooden 
announcement board. The top simply read "Tryouts" with several 
rows of blank lines. A charcoal stick sat o n the lip. Well, it wasn’t like 
I could become any more of a laughing stock than I already was. 
What did I have to lose?  
I took a breath and scribbled my name before I had a chance to 
back down. By being first, at least I’d shown I wasn’t afraid of my 
peers, or their opinions of me.  
 
 
 
Authand and the other instructors spent a week fielding questions 
from curious Dragoneers before posting a leaderboard  outside the 
mess hall. I was listed as number twenty out of twenty -one student 
candidates. Not a great start, but at least I wasn’t dead last. Lewon 
first and Florian was right behind him. But I couldn’t let that bother 
me. 
The second week, I had moved up  to tenth place. My instructors 
were beginning to recognize my progress. I even made it into the 
advanced class that Selkerdrim taught as a teacher’s assistant. "I want 
the glove from the top of the flag pole," Selkerdrim shouted through 
the amplifying hor n he’d borrowed from the professor. I followed 
her pointer to the Darnetan flag flapping in the wind. Above it sat 
the familiar dragon filial. But a leather glove covered its left wing.  
Farean growled. I could feel her neck muscles clenching. Despite 
multi ple attempts, we still hadn’t managed to grab anything while 
midair. Attempts usually ended in an emergency landing so Farean 
could heal a broken wrist. I knew that each healing provided a full 
renewal so that injuries became good as new. But it still thro bbed 
when I thought about it.  
I exhaled slowly. "We can do this. I’ve got a feeling." She said 
nothing but rose up for the approach. She felt at the flagpole, the sun 
at our backs to reduce glare. The metal post approached more 
quickly than I would have li ked. I squinted at the glove, willing it to 
leap into my hand. Fifty feet to go.  
Farean folded her wing in, sending us into a tilting swirl. Twenty 
feet to go. I extended my arm, lining it up with my target, following it 
as our angle changed. Ten feet. I l eaned forward. I knew in my gut 
Royal Dragoneer   182 
 that I could make it. Five feet. I knew better, but in my mind, I could 
smell the leather.  
*CRACK*  
Pigeons roosting on the stable roof flew off in protest as my 
scream echoed off every building in the camp. Farean dropped to  the 
ground. The jolt sent a fresh wave of pain through my dangling wrist.  
Selkerdrim saw my arm and turned green. "Oh gods. Let me get 
the healer."  
"No, wait." I gritted my teeth through the pain. "Help me down." 
I’d gotten quite good at extricating mysel f from the harness with only 
one hand, but one buckle required putting some pressure on my right 
arm to reach.  
I slid down Farean’s back while Selkerdrim supported me. I 
whimpered as I held the broken joint out to my dragon. She grasped 
the offending limb with her claw. Tears welled in my eyes, and I 
fought to contain them. I’d failed the challenge yet again and while 
being evaluated to boot. At the very least, I would keep some dignity 
in being seen to withstand the pain even though I wanted little more 
to curl up into a ball and cry.  
Soft light pulsed under the tiny scales about her limb, radiating 
towards the point of our contact. I took short, panting breaths as 
heat spread over my arm, seeping deep under the skin. This part 
never got any easier but I kn ew in. Few moments it would pass in a 
few moments. I could feel the bones knit together.  
The glow subsided and Farean released me. I flexed my fingers 
slowly. The pain was gone, except for the hallow memory of it which 
never seemed to quite fade.  
Selkerdri m stared at me, his mouth opening and closing several 
times before he found his tongue. "How did you do that? Nobody 
can do that. No elf has had magic that strong since the days of 
Vernis. Does this hurt?" He grabbed my hand and squeezed where 
the freshly healed tissue.  
The name he mentioned tickled something in the back of my 
mind, a familiarity I couldn’t quite place. I wanted to ask him who 
183  Ash Rober ts 
 that was, but the query was quickly submerged under a sea of his own 
questions.  
"Don’t tell anyone," I told her. "O nly you and Esgeril know." 
Speaking her name still hurt. I wondered if she would betray my trust 
now that we were no longer friends.  
"I." His next words where overpowered by the sound of the horn 
blowing. We turned at the sound. The next emergency drill sh ouldn’t 
happen for weeks yet. We headed towards the sound, soon joined by 
other elves streaming out of the buildings. A few dragon heads poked 
over the crowd, also curious about the unexpected drill.  
We all turned at the sound. We’d just had an emergency d rill two 
days before. It was unlikely to be one again so soon. I moved, 
heading towards the sound, soon joined by other Elves streaming out 
of the buildings. A few dragon heads poked from the stables, alert 
and curious.  
Authand marched to the front of the parade field, pulling his 
harness over his tunic as he went. The buckles gleamed like new, but 
there were reddish stains on his riding leathers under the right breast 
plate, an eternal reminder of the day he’d bloodily lost his hand.  
The aide, whose name nobody seemed to know, handed him a 
speaking horn. The Colonel closed the articulating hook around the 
handle and brought it to his face. "We are under attack from Goblins. 
This is not a drill. Selkerdrim, take Rilith and fly as fast as you can to 
the main  Dragoneer barracks in Verlo to get help."  
Verlo was almost a full day’s flight away. Depending on the size of 
the Goblin force, we might be able to hold them off for two days 
without outside help. These facts came to me easily and instantly, a 
result of o verhearing basic military tactics while playing under my 
father’s war table as a child.  
"Recruits, to arms and defend your home!" Authand called a 
rallying cry.  
Dragoneers jostled each other, some running to the barracks for 
their harnesses, others, who al ready had them on, to the stables.  
Royal Dragoneer   184 
 I was about to run for Farean when Authand grabbed me. "Not 
you, Kalia. Go to my quarters. There is a hatch under my desk that 
will lead you to a cave. I will send Farean to meet you. You’ll be safe 
there, no matter what happens to the camp."  
"But I want to help." I shook him off. "I can’t just cower and hide 
while others are fighting."  
"You can, and you will," he thundered, shaking his hook in my 
face. "I will not put the princess of this kingdom in danger.  
"But—" 
"Go. Th at’s an order, dammit." Something crashed against the 
gate, and the wood started to buckle. "Reinforce the gate!" Authand 
ordered. "I need dragons in the air now!" He ran to where Elves and 
dragons were barricading the entrance.  
"Go to the cave." Farean pl eaded. " I can keep you safe there". I turned to 
find her pacing the ground behind me. I hadn’t even heard her land.  
"Not you, too. We should be up there." I pointed to the sky where 
a dozen dragons carried rocks, logs, and anything they could find to 
drop on the invaders beyond the wall. "We have as much right to 
fight as anyone here."  
Just as I said it, a boulder the size of a cow came sailing over the 
wall. I stood, motionless, as it hit Selkerdrim’s dragon Rilith square in 
the head. Selkerdrim, who had b een mounting the dragon, screamed 
as they both tumbled to the ground. Rilith landed with a sickening 
thud in the grass before us. Neither rider nor dragon moved. I ran 
towards them, and Selkerdrim stirred. Blood trickled from his brow 
where his head had bo unced against Rilith’s bony neck ridge.  
I slowed as I approached. Rilith’s neck lay at an odd angle, his 
head caved in on one side. The Blue dragon was no longer breathing.  
"Selkerdrim, I —" I reached out, trying to help her up.  
"Get away from him!" he scre amed. He had his buckles undone in 
a flash and pulled a knife from his belt as he dropped to the ground. 
"I won’t let you hurt him." Tears flowed down his cheeks as he 
waved the knife from side to side.  
185  Ash Rober ts 
 Farean bellowed behind me. I turned but saw nothing w rong. 
Around the camp the other dragons joined in her baleful cry.  
"He’s dead, Selkerdrim," I said softly. "And you’re hurt. We need 
to get you to the healer." I took a step forward.  
"He’s not dead," he insisted, his eyes lost and confused. "He’s just 
sleeping. Stay away from us."  
I looked around. Everyone was too busy to even notice that Rilith 
had fallen. I couldn’t see Authand, but he needed to send somebody 
else to fetch Dragoneers reinforcements. But if I waded into the 
battle to try and find him, he’d  be pissed. And if no one flew to get 
reinforcements, we’d all be dead.  
"We’ll go," I told Farean. I closed the few feet between us, 
mounted her, and buckled myself in.  
"But"— 
"Now! " I commanded. " You want safe? How much safer can we be than 
flying to the other side of the country?  " 
She considered my argument for a moment, then launched us into 
the air.  
Within seconds, another boulder missile was hurtling toward us.  
"Down.  "I directed.  
Farean tucked her wings and rolled away from the projectile.  
I felt the  air riffle as it passed inches from us.  
Farean started flapping again, gaining altitude.  
We passed over Authand.  
Seeing us overhead, he shouted. "What are you doing? Get down 
here, you idiot girl!"  
I pointed down at Selkerdrim still defending his dead dra gon and 
turned away from him.  
Farean lurched, catching a smaller boulder aimed at us in her 
talons. She labored under its weight, getting closer to the wall before 
tossing it back down on the Goblins. They scattered like 
cockroaches, but quickly returned t o loading their trebuchets.  
I saw Esgeril crouched behind a merlon at the top of the wall, 
firing her crossbow with deadly accuracy. She saved her shots for 
Royal Dragoneer   186 
 those closest to overcoming the defenses. Even so, she’d already 
emptied half of her quiver in the few short minutes since the battle 
began.  
The curve in the wall blocked her view of most of the action to 
her left. We had few enough archers, and that left an unguarded gap. 
I wondered that nobody had ever noticed it before; it seemed 
obvious enough from the air. But what my fellow Dragoneers hadn’t 
seen, the Goblins had. Already, a ladder leaned against that section of 
wall with one of their fighters approaching the battlement.  
I shouted to Esgeril, but the din of the fighting drowned out my 
voice. Farean  banked hard and flew straight at the vile creature. I 
tensed as we sped towards the wall, but Farean was an expert flyer. I 
trusted her with my life.  
Mere feet separated the Goblin from Esgeril, but her attention still 
lay on the ground below, trusting th e archers to her left to protect 
her blind side. The Goblin drew its dagger as it closed the gap.  
We weren’t going to make it in time.  
Farean pushed harder. Instead of pulling up and grabbing with her 
feet as I’d expected, she dove.  
Her jaws crunched down and she grabbed the Goblin by its arm. 
Farean shook her head as her prey struggled to get loose. We barely 
cleared Esgeril, who finally turned as our shadow darkened the sky 
above her. She looked around, saw the glistening dagger the Goblin 
had dropped on the wall, and mouthed what looked like a "thank 
you," as we flew away.  
The Goblin struggled, grabbing at Farean’s eye ridge with his free 
arm, trying to gouge her eyeball.  
She chomped down harder, and I heard bones snap as the Goblin 
screamed.  
"Bleh. It tastes terrible ", she said. " What  should  I do with it?" 
"Fly back over the wall and drop it like you did the stone", I suggested.  
In a flash, she banked, sending us back over the heads of the 
attacking Goblin forces.  
187  Ash Rober ts 
 She opened her mouth and the Goblin screa med one last time, 
plummeting to the earth and splatting as a red stain below us, sending 
the trebuchet operators running for cover once again.  
They didn’t have a chance to get another shot off at us before 
Farean veered east, heading for Verlo.  
We soon pu t the camp and the fighting behind us, but this was not 
the way I’d wanted to earn my freedom. Still, I leaned back and 
allowed the wind to blow my hair behind me. I let go entirely, 
trusting the harness to hold me and relished the feeling of flying 
alone in the sky with Farean. There was nothing like it.  
Farean beat her wings harder and we rose higher. The trees 
blurred together into one green mass.  
"What  are you doing?  "I asked" . This is too high." 
"Vernis  says the air moves  faster the higher  we go. We can get help sooner. " 
There was that name again. But I didn’t know any Dragoneer with 
a dragon named Vernis. " Who is Vernis? " 
"The dragon  king. " 
"Dragons  don’t have a king", I said. " Do you? " 
Farean caught a gust of wind that threw us forward, making me 
grab the harness. The ground streaked below us. I held on as tight as 
I could, but conversation stopped while I fought to keep my balance 
in the tempest. Above me the clouds seemed just out of reach. 
Holding on with my right arm, I extended my left, stretc hing my 
fingers to gain that extra half inch, but I wasn’t any closer to the 
fluffy cotton than before.  
Without warning, we fell, my stomach flying upward into my 
chest. The sensation lasted only a second and then Farean climbed 
back to our previous altitu de. She was riding the currents and wind 
streams, pushing our speed to the upper limits. I felt her suppressed 
panic, as well as my own, as she struggled to keep flying as the wind 
tossed us about. But she was doing it. I don’t know how, but she 
was. Final ly, we descended and the battering winds abated a little.  
"Did your Vernis  warn you about that?" I grumbled.  
Royal Dragoneer   188 
 Farean continued to ignore my questions about her mysterious 
king, so I let it go.  
The air calmed, and we slowed. I tried to match the landscape 
below to the maps I’d studied at the castle when my father wasn’t 
shooing me away. If I was right about our location, we were a little 
off course.  
Farean corrected to the south, sensing my thoughts.  
There was another problem, though. We weren’t going to make  it 
before sun set. My limited navigation skills would do us no good in 
the dark, and I hadn’t yet taken the class that taught Dragoneers 
navigation by the stars.  
Sensing my worry, Farean picked up the pace. She inched closer to 
the faster air above us, bu t the turbulence exhausted her. I could feel 
her muscles straining, her wings aching. She continued like that for 
an hour, alternating higher and lower, elevations, supplementing the 
slower air speeds with more effort. With each cycle, I could feel her 
fatigue, her wings taking longer and longer to recover from the 
buffeting winds.  
It seeped into me like a winter’s chill. My eyelids drooped. " We 
need a plan." I told her."  If you keep up like this, we’ll crash and nobody  will 
help the training  camp. " 
"I don’t like the crashing  part, but why must we help? None of them like us." 
"Duty isn’t about people  liking  you, it’s about doing what is right." My 
father’s words flowed from my lips. And dammit, he was right. " We 
are Dragoneers. ” I told Farean proudly.  "More than that, I am a princess  to 
these people.  And you are the royal dragon . We have to do our best to protect  
them. It’s what rulers do." 
"The dragon  king is my ruler", she insisted. " But maybe  if we save them, 
they’ll  like us." She sounded hopeful and I rea lized, for the first time, 
that the rejection by the other Dragoneers had really been getting to 
her. How had I not seen that, or felt it.  
"You were having  a hard enough  time without  worrying  about me", she said. 
"Good dragons  don’t worry their riders unless they have to." "But now maybe  
189  Ash Rober ts 
 worry.  I don’t know if we can make it. I’m tired and my wings ache. Can’t  we 
land for just a little bit? 
Without realizing it, we’d left the forests behind. Fields full of 
haystacks sprawled below, dotting the landscape wit h fluffy golden 
circles. Maybe a quick nap in one would help. Farean started 
coasting. " Yes, sleep would  be just the thing". 
But I knew we couldn’t, as tempting as it was. If we stopped, we’d 
never be able to find the training camp in the dark.  
"I have an idea," I said to Farean. " Keep flying. " 
One of the things Flatch had taught me was that aching muscles 
were caused when muscle fibers tore from overuse. If our healing 
magic could knit broken bones and dispel bruises, then restoring 
muscles shouldn’t be th at hard.  
I reached out to Farean’s shoulders where her great muscles flexed 
with each beat. Taking a deep breath, the magic pulsed through my 
hands and into her body. Unlike the other times we had healed each 
other, there was no obvious damage to see repai red. I just kept 
pushing the healing light into her until my own arms began to 
tremble.  
"Enough.  You’ll  hurt yourself.  " 
"Was it enough  though?  "I slowly pushed myself upright. " I can give 
you more." My arms quivered in protest at the mere suggestion of it  
but I didn’t care.  
"I’m good. But you aren’t.  Remember,  we both need to make it there. I won’t 
do any good delivering  them a dead Dragoneer. " As if to prove her point, she 
gained speed, flying faster than we ever had before.  
I let her fly; only occasional ly pointing out landmarks to keep our 
course. Slowly, I regained my energy while Farean lost hers to 
exertion. We landed once for water, but otherwise stayed aloft the 
entire trip. I healed her weary muscles twice more, and each time it 
took more out of me . Finally, as the sun dipped towards the horizon 
behind us, we saw the high walls of Verlo in the distance. As we 
slowed for landing, I lost my grip. I had nothing left and just dangled 
limply from the harness.  
Royal Dragoneer   190 
 My mind barely registered as hands loosened m y harness buckles 
and lifted me off Farean’s back.  
"I—" My mind was having trouble coming up with words, or even 
coherent thoughts. "I need to see General Lutania." The Dragoneers 
transferred me to a stretcher and as they carried me from my dragon, 
I looke d back to her entire body trembling as they brought her a side 
of beef to eat.  
I think I must have passed out, because the next thing I knew a 
scratchy voice said, "Princess Kalia, I’m right here. But you’re half 
dead, poor girl. Get the healers for her. S he’s in no condition to tell 
me anything."  
A hand appeared in front of my face, holding a sweet -smelling 
herb to my mouth.  
I pushed it away. My news couldn’t wait. I needed to tell him now.  
But the hand was stronger than mine. He pressed the herb 
between m y lips and someone commanded, "Eat it!"  
I swallowed, and the little willpower I had to stay awake seeped 
from me.  
 
 
 
"Kalia,  you’re  awake "! Farean screeched in my head like a toddler 
reunited with her favor ite toy.  
I opened my eyes to a dimly lit room with stone walls that gleamed 
from years of being scrubbed. The air smelled like the astringent 
healers used to keep their work spaces clean.  
As the fog in my head cleared, I suddenly remembered my 
purpose and sat up. The room swirled for a minute before steadying. 
"I need to speak to General Lutania, immediately," I said to no one.  
"Kalia," a voice said from behind me. More slowly this time, I 
turned to find the General herself sitting in a chair in the corner,  her 
ankle propped up on her opposite knee like a man.  
"How long have I been asleep?" I demanded. The windowless 
room gave me no cues  
"Only an hour," she said. "I’ve been here the entire time. I 
assumed you’d want to speak to me as soon as you woke. No one  
rides themselves and their dragon into the ground like that for less 
than something dire. But I’m curious why you look like the one that 
had carried her."  
I bit my lip and studied the wooden floorboards. I didn’t want to 
reveal my secret. I was considered  enough of a freak already.  
"I’ve been around Dragoneers a long time," she said, seeing my 
hesitancy. "I suspect I already know. You’re not the only Dragoneer 
to have such a trait. And you’re wise, I believe, to keep to yourself as 
much as possible.  
"So, I wasn’t  the only Dragoneer  to be able to heal with magic? " Well, that 
was both a relief and raised a lot of questions.  
Royal Dragoneer   192 
 Here," she handed me a small pouch exuding a familiar smell. 
"This herb will help restore you when you’ve overextended yourself. 
It’s lik e stimleaf but much more powerful. Don’t use it unless you 
must. For some people, it can be addictive."  
I took the pouch and stuffed it in an inner pocket, thanking her. 
But there were more important things at hand.  
"Sir," I said, "Tulta is under attack by  Goblins." Then, I quickly 
detailed what I knew about their numbers and weapons. I finished by 
relaying my assessment of their ability to break our gate and wall 
defenses within two days’ time.  
"This is grave news, indeed." She stood and made for the door.  
"Stay here, while I mobilize the Dragoneers."  
Soon after he left, the great bell clanged. Habit ingrained in me 
from months of drilling brought me to my feet. The room wobbled, 
and I put a hand on the cot to steady myself. I swallowed a pinch of 
the herb that Lutania had given me. It took a couple more attempts 
to cross the room, but I was a little less dizzy each time.  
I moved to the door and down a hall to an arched exit. Torches lit 
the area outside. I made it to the parade field just as the General 
concluded her announcement. Dragoneers raced past me, hurrying to 
prepare for their cross -country journey. The General spotted me and 
intercepted me on my way to Farean. "Go back to bed. I commend 
you on doing whatever it took to get the news to us, but su ch acts 
come at a cost. You’ve done your part. Now rest."  
I shook my head. "I have to go back and help. Those are my 
friends dying out there. Well, at least one is a friend. I think."  
She put his hand on my shoulder. "Princess, your father has 
ordered us t o keep you out of danger."  
"This again?  First Authand  and now the General. " 
"Sir, my father kicked me out of my home and left me to lodge 
with a swineherd," I said bitterly. "He does not care about my well -
being." Months had passed since that day, but bile  still rose in my 
throat recalling it.  
193  Ash Rober ts 
 "You mean a swineherd that worked for him?" The General asked, 
a glint in her eye. "With a chambermaid daughter who just happened 
to find you in the rain and offer her help."  
My mouth opened. I hadn’t told anyone abou t that. "You mean 
my father arranged that?" I asked, angrily. Somehow that knowledge 
made the whole thing worse. Why throw me out and publicly 
humiliate me, only to help me behind the scenes? I’ll tell you why. He 
still wanted power over me, to keep me fro m becoming a true 
Dragoneer.  
"Listen, I’m going," I told her. "Throw me in the Caves after this 
is over if you have to, but for now I have a duty to uphold."  
He looked away before removing his hand. "I can’t allow you to 
go." 
"But—" 
He held up a hand. "I c an’t allow you. But I’m obviously much 
too busy to actively stop you. Just try not to get yourself killed."  
I nodded. "Thank you."  
Before I even called, Farean was landing by my side.  
I climbed onto her, fastening the harness as we lifted from the 
ground. She wheeled up to the faster higher winds immediately this 
time, the moons in the sky providing enough illumination to navigate 
by. 
"Vernis  showed  me the way home". Farean said.  
"Well, lead the way then," I said, knowing better than to question her 
imaginary king.  
The return trip was better than our earlier flight. We had a tailwind 
this time, and Farean was getting better at utilizing the higher winds. 
The ride was smooth enough that I was able to nap a bit on her back. 
We didn’t stop once, and I on ly had to heal her twice. After the 
second time though, I took a bite of the herb the General had given 
me, feeling the energy surge down my throat and into my limbs. We 
didn’t see or hear the General’s Dragoneers behind us the entire trip, 
but I knew they  were coming.  
Royal Dragoneer   194 
 At last, toward dawn, we came in over the lake to give ourselves 
an entrance clear of Goblins and their flinging boulders. As we 
approached, I saw twelve of dragons stretched out around the 
pavilions with healers working over them to tend bro ken wings and 
other injuries. A dozen downed dragons and riders was a heavy battle 
toll. 
As Farean’s talons hit the ground, we narrowly missed being hit by 
another Goblin missile.  
I dismounted and sought out Authand while Farean lapped water 
from the lake.  Portions of the wall had crumbled, but it still repelled 
our invaders. I doubted the General’s Dragoneers would reach us for 
another six hours. And the wall might not hold that long.  
I found Authand in his office with most of the other instructors. 
Floria n and a second year I didn’t recognize stood guard at the door.  
"What are you doing back?" She taunted. "Did it get too scary out 
there, and you came running back to safety?"  
"That doesn’t even make sense," I responded. "If I was looking 
for safety, why wo uld I return to a battle? This has got to be the least 
safe place in all of Darneta right now." I took a step forward, but 
Florian pulled her short sword and blocked my path. Belatedly, the 
other girl, Zimaelan according to the name badge on her leathers, 
pulled hers as well.  
"The Colonel said no one was allowed in. And I’m certainly not 
going to let a coward like you waste his time."  
I pulled my own sword from its sheath. "That’s the last time you 
insult me. Get out of my way, or I will remove you myself."  I 
couldn’t take the both of them, but I was hoping Zimaelan would 
bail. Or maybe even help me.  
Florian snarled and tightened her grip, her face contorting in a way 
that confirmed the orc heritage I had long suspected. We eyed each 
other, waiting to see if  the other would make the first move.  
"Kalia? What are you doing here? Get your butt in here." Both of 
our heads snapped at the sound of Authand’s voice. "What in the 
195  Ash Rober ts 
 ancestors’ name are you both doing with your swords out? Put them 
away. And Kalia, why ar en’t you inside already?"  
I sheathed my sword as I pushed past Florian who also hurried to 
comply. I barely made it through the doorway before Authand 
slammed it behind me.  
"What are you doing back? Not that I don’t remember you 
disobeyed a direct order. I  do. But since you did, I was hoping you’d 
accomplish something worthwhile for my troubles. Instead, you’re 
back her with no help to show for it," He punched the wall with his 
hook. It embedded a full three inches into the wood. He pulled but 
the harness t hat attached the device to his arm came loose instead, 
leaving the straps dangling next to my head.  
I flinched away from it. The contraption seemed even more 
intimidating when it was disembodied from him.  
He moved me aside with his stump and pulled at it w ith his good 
hand. "Well?" He wrestled with his hook. "Answer me, dammit."  
"I did accomplish something," I said. "I made it there just before 
dark. The General and the others should be here in about six hours."  
"Dragon dung!" The hook came free from the wa ll. He held it 
under his arm and cleaned the debris from it before reattaching it. 
"No one can fly that fast without killing their dragon. And Korth 
says Farean is currently down by the lake alive and well. Don’t lie to 
me, girl. If we’re all going to die here, I need to know it."  
"Maybe she’s just faster than your fat old dragon." Outside Korth 
roared. I’d like to see you do half of what I can"," Farean shot back at an 
insult I couldn’t hear.  
Authand’s eyes narrowed. His stare seemed to crawl inside my 
brain and claw at the soft tissue. I’d be seeing those eyes in my 
nightmares. "You’re telling me you flew all night and beat an 
experienced Dragoneer force, with some of the fastest dragons in the 
seven kingdoms, back here by six hours?"  
"I—Yes," I said lamel y. Now I was caught between explaining my 
magic or digging myself into a deeper hole.  
Royal Dragoneer   196 
 Thankfully, I was saved from having to make that decision by 
Lewon bursting through the door. "Calen said you called for me, 
sir?" 
He stopped short when he saw me standin g there. It was always 
awkward between us now. But then he turned to Authand, waiting 
for orders.  
Authand looked at me, calculating, weighing my worth and the 
possibility that what I was claiming was the truth.  
"Kalia claims she and Farean made it to Verlo  and returned in one 
night, and that reinforcements are on their way."  
"That’s not possible," Lewon said. "No one is that fast."  
"That’s what I said," Authand agreed.  
"What could it possibly gain me to lie about this?" I asked 
earnestly, eyeing Lewon, remi nding him with my eyes that we’d both 
seen how Farean could fly when we’d escaped Roland. And maybe it 
would occur to him that I could heal her fatigue.  
"Well, it’s highly unlikely," Lewon said, caving a little. "But 
technically possible."  
"I can’t stake t he camp’s survival on an unlikely possibility," 
Authand said. "But it really doesn’t matter. We don’t have six hours. 
The wall will fall before then. We need to evacuate the injured 
through the tunnel. I will not leave Dragons here to be Goblin meat."  
Lewo n shook his head. "The entire camp is surrounded, except on 
the lakeside, sir. We come out of those tunnels, and the greyskins will 
be waiting for us."  
"We need a distraction," I said.  
"Farean seems pretty good at catching those rocks." Authand 
pointed out  the window to where my dragon had taken to the sky 
without me. As we watched, she caught another of the airborne 
boulders and dropped it back over the wall. "You and she could 
concentrate a barrage surrounding the tunnel exit. It might scare 
them off long  enough for an escape effort."  
I swallowed. The Colonel must be very desperate to defy the order 
from my father to keep me out of harm’s way. Then again, the 
197  Ash Rober ts 
 General had ignored it too. Desperate times called for desperate 
measures.  
"We can do it, sir," I said. "We won’t let you down."  
"Calen and I will help," Lewon said. I suspected he was offering so 
he could keep an eye on me, rather than out of any altruistic feelings, 
but I’d take it.  
Farean and I waited for Lewon to be ready before taking to the 
air. We would have to time our efforts precisely once we reached the 
tunnel exit leading into the forest, but Calen and Farean could mind -
speak to one another, so that would help. The thought crossed my 
mind to "miss" one of the rocks that would be lobbed at th em. But 
Father taught me to never stoop to the level of my enemies.  
Once in the air, Farean quickly caught a rock. The Goblins seemed 
to have caught on to our tactics, however, and followed with a volley 
of arrows. Farean dropped the rock to maneuver aroun d the 
onslaught, and it fell into the camp, sending those below running. It 
had almost hit Florian, and I had no doubt she’d think it had been 
intentional.  
Farean pulled out of her spin beyond the range of the archers. 
She’d managed to protect her wings an d underbelly, but a few arrows 
had lodged between her scales.  
I reached down, pulling them out and sent a quick shot of healing 
energy through her.  
We circled above the camp assessing the situation.  
Lewon and Calen weren’t having any more luck catching roc ks 
than we were. The Goblins were now ignoring us and focusing on 
bringing down the last vestiges of the crumbling wall. Our original 
plan wasn’t going to work.  
"We have to change  the plan". I told Farean. " Rocks  aren’t  going to work,  
but we have to pull the Goblins  away from the tunnel. " 
"Capture  the flag". Farean said, sending images of the game flashing 
in my head.  
"Oh, you’re  brilliant,  "I praised her."  Let’s go." "And be sure to tell Calen  
what we’re up to." 
Royal Dragoneer   198 
 Selkerdrim hadn’t let us onto the playing fi eld since we lost the 
game that first day, but that hadn’t kept Farean and I from practicing 
by ourselves.  
We flew up high, above any possible attack, then wide around the 
battle. I heard Florian’s shrill voice as we retreated. The words were 
lost to the w ind, but I guessed her message. She thought I was 
running away from the battle. Which I was, sort of. But only for a 
moment.  
Once Farean and I were well away from the action, we dove 
beneath the trees and made for the rear flank nearest the tunnel exit. 
Capture the flag was a game of stealth. And if we’d been allowed to 
play, the Blues would have discovered that Farean could navigate the 
forest without disturbing a single twig. But the game was more than 
stealth. It was also about cunning strategy. Lewon ha d taught us that 
the hard way, showing us his team flag, supposedly unguarded and 
easy pickings. He’s lured us to an ambush we’d never seen coming. 
And that’s exactly what we hoped to do to the Goblins.  
"Calen  and Lewon  are ready", Farean said. " They’ve  found a clearing  that 
will work,  and Calen  has shown  me where it is." 
"Then let’s go," I told her.  
She flew forward and we came upon the Goblins rear line near the 
tunnel exit. It was hidden, so they didn’t know it was there. And 
thankfully, they’d left gaps  between each soldier, so we took 
advantage of that.  
Farean picked off the first before we’d even been spotted, heaving 
him in the air to land with a discernable crunch.  
The second Goblin saw us at the last second. She twisted just out 
of Farean’s reach an d pulled her sword. I pulled out my own as we 
pivoted around a branch. We came at her again upside down. The 
Goblin’s thrust was awkward, our orientation seeming to throw her 
off. I had no such problems, this being one of the few things I’d 
practiced that I was actually good at.  
I parried her thrust and used her momentum against her. Her 
blade came free of her hands and slammed into her face. Blood 
199  Ash Rober ts 
 gushed from her nose. A cry escaped her lips but fell short. I looked 
behind to see Farean’s tail tinged in bl ood and the warrior slumping 
to the ground.  
The next few gave us little problem. With the rear guards 
dispatched, our task became more difficult as the Goblin soldiers 
came at us in clustered groups, turning away from the camp wall and 
pushing toward us fo r their turn in the fray. Which was exactly what 
we’d hoped for.  
"Pull back," I told Farean. " It’s time to offer them our flag." 
Farean flew away into the forest, just beyond sight of the 
encroaching Goblins, and I grabbed one of the arrows I’d pulled 
from  between her scales earlier.  
"Couldn’t  you just pretend? " I begged her, looking at the sharp tip of 
the arrow.  
"They’ll  suspect  a trap if they don’t smell my blood,  "she said. " Now do it!" 
"You know you can heal me afterwards. " 
I raised my fist, clutching the arrow, and plunged it into the joint 
where her right wing met her body.  
She cried out, and flapped the wing, quivering with pain.  
"I’m sorry. I’m so sorry," I told her as her injured wing dropped 
limply to her side.  
Three Goblins came charging at us, t heir dark eyes taking in the 
scene —a dragon who had just killed numerous of their brethren, 
suddenly at their mercy with a grounding injury. I saw them all raise 
their snouts in unison, sniffing at my dragon’s lifeblood.  
Farean whirled, running awkwardly, dragging her wing behind her. 
I looked back to see her whacking Goblins aside with her tail, but 
they were gaining on us and there were more coming. I could see the 
bloodlust and hunger in their eyes. There was nothing a Goblin loved 
more than an injured, helpless, dragon.  
Farean crashed through the underbrush, galloping between trees 
and through bushes. And I held on to her for dear life, but I was 
doing more than that. I had my hands on her wing joint, sending 
healing energy into her as fast and hard as I  could.  
Royal Dragoneer   200 
 And then the forest opened up into a large clearing, full of tall 
yellow grasses and blue meadow flowers, like a place you’d expect to 
find a unicorn, not stop to face your inevitable death.  
Farean ran -wobbled to the far end of the clearing and tur ned to 
face the Goblin onslaught.  
Goblins filled the meadow, charging at us in a huge mob.  
And then the air was full of dragons, dropping from the trees like 
rabid stones. Every uninured Dragon and rider that wasn’t helping 
with the evacuation had fled the  camp and come here to our ambush.  
Calen and Lewon took out a Goblin just as he raised an ax to us.  
No one else even got close.  
"Pull out the arrow, " Farean said, and I looked down to see that her 
joint wound was already healing, forming scar tissue that h ad almost 
pushed the arrow out.  
I grabbed it and tugged it the rest of the way, happy to hear her 
sigh with relief.  
The pretty yellow meadow grass and blue flowers were now 
strewn with Goblin blood and corpses.  
"The Goblins just breached the camp wall," Le won said, landing 
next to us. "But Florian’s Masta reports that the evacuees are out of 
the tunnel and all headed to safety thanks to your quick thinking and 
Farean’s acting skills. Good plan," he said, giving me a nod of 
grudging respect.  
"Actually, it wa s your plan," I pointed out. "I just used it better."  
 
 
 
We were all congratulating ourselves on a clean victory, when I 
noticed a dragon silhouette in the sky flying towards us. The Colonel 
was easily reco gnizable on his huge dragon, but Korth wasn’t flying 
well at all. He’s been hit by multiple arrows, and there were visible 
tears in his wings.  
The Orange dragon howled and pitched to the right. Broken 
harness straps dangled uselessly, and Authand held on f or dear life 
with his one hand. Then Korth pitched the other way suddenly, and 
Authand lost his grip.  
The Colonel tumbled free of his dragon.  
Korth snatched at his rider, trying to catch him, but with his wing 
askew he missed. Korth shrieked with fury and tried again but 
couldn’t keep up with Authand’s free fall.  
"Farean," I shouted and pointed. Without looking, she took off 
towards the Colonel. Her wings pounded against the air, pushing us 
even faster than when we had ridden the great air current. The wind  
hurt my face but still we pushed onward, the gap between us and him 
closing with each beat.  
Her claws glanced off his armor before she snagged his arm. His 
momentum fought against ours and I could hear the pop of his 
shoulder coming free of its socket fro m my perch. His scream was 
echoed by Korth who coasted into the meadow, joining the other 
Dragoneers.  
There must have been one lone Goblin left in the woods —an 
archer who hadn’t fallen for our trap or run for the camp wall. 
Unfortunately, he was also a ver y good shot.  
Royal Dragoneer   202 
 Slowed from the Colonel’s added weight, Farean couldn’t dodge 
his arrow, and it struck her just below her heart.  
"Farean! " I cried out, clutching at my chest, feeling the sharp pain 
as if the arrow had pierced me.  
She glided out of the archer’ s range, taking us over the lake where 
no Goblins dared go.  
Below us, the Colonel swung in the wind, moaning on the edge of 
consciousness. Somewhere behind us in the clearing, Korth hissed 
and screeched for his injured rider. I calculated the distance. We were 
losing too much altitude to make it back there.  
"He’s too heavy, " Farean complained, pain tinging her voice. " I’m 
going to drop him." 
"No, you’re  not", I said, but I could feel her straining not to lose her 
grip. Boy, wouldn’t we be the talk of the Dr agoneers for years to 
come if we dropped the Colonel on his head from three hundred feet 
up. We’d never live that down.  
I had to do something, so I unhooked my harness. My hands 
shook as they manipulated the oiled buckles. Thoughts of falling 
from Farean’s  back filled my head, but I pushed them aside.  
I loosened the final buckle. For the first time in months of flying, 
nothing held me to Farean’s back. I inched towards her chest, making 
sure of each handhold before letting go of the other. My feet found 
her foreleg. I balanced myself on her extended limb while I crouched 
to grab at her with my arms.  
She hit a pocket of air and dropped suddenly, pitching me 
forward. Thankfully, my waving arms caught the same leg I had been 
standing on. I struggled to regain m y perch, one flailing foot 
knocking the Colonel in the head.  
The impact jostled him to semi -consciousness. His eyes went wide 
when he looked up and saw me dangling above him on Farean’s leg, 
both of us hundreds of feet in the air.  
"Uh, hi," I said.  
"Kalia,  what are you doing?" he said, his words slurred a little. 
"Get back in your harness."  
203  Ash Rober ts 
 "Grab my hand," I said, reaching out for him. I knew it was his 
good arm that had been dislocated when Farean caught him. He was 
going to have to reach up with his hook and that might get painful 
for me.  
"I can’t do that," he said, realizing the same thing.  
"If you don’t, Farean is going to drop you," I said. I could see her 
talons slipping loose. He must have been able to feel it.  
"She can drop me over the lake," he said . "From this height, there 
is a good probability I would live."  
"I need more than a good probability," I said, shaking my open 
hand at him. "My hand will heal."  
"Okay," he nodded. "On the count of three."  
"One," I said. "Two. Three."  
I reached down, and he  thrust up, his hook catching over most of 
my fingers, but the point dug into my pinky and tore through it.  
I didn’t scream or make a noise. If Farean could fly with an arrow 
in her chest, I could handle a little hook in the pinky.  
I yanked the Colonel up with all my strength, pain shooting 
through my hand, arm and shoulder. But he was up, wobbling on her 
leg joint next to me.  
I yanked my hand back, pulling his hook from my flesh, and we 
both scrambled into the one -person harness. It was awkward and 
tight, but he got us both tied in.  
"Help me now", Farean said, her voice sounding weird and weak.  
I took a deep breath. I’d wanted to keep my power a secret, but 
my dragon needed me. I closed my eyes and called the power forth. I 
heard Authand gasp when my hands began to glow. With my pulsing 
hands on Farean’s back ridge, I send my energy in looking for the 
arrow in her chest. I should be able to push it out, just like I had the 
one I’d jammed into her wing joint. But this one was much deeper, 
and it was bleeding so much more.  
Blood dripping from the wound whipped upwards on the wind, 
splattering my face.  
Royal Dragoneer   204 
 But I could feel the broken shaft pushing away from her and 
poking above her scales. I paused my healing long enough to lean 
over her neck and feel for it with my  fingers.  
The arrow head came loose from the wound and I grabbed it, 
tossing it away. Farean took a few tentative flaps, but we continued 
to lose altitude.  
"She can’t carry two riders," Authand said. "Most dragons can’t."  
"The shore is not too far," I told  him. "She can make it."  
"I can make it", Farean agreed.  
"I’m not crash -landing on your little dragon," The Colonel said 
stubbornly, untying the harness ropes.  
"What are you —" he was jumping before I could finish my 
sentence, his splash dousing me as he hi t the lake with a smack.  
Well, he’d only had to drop a few feet, and if anyone could swim 
to shore with a dislocated shoulder, the Colonel could.  
I looked back to make sure he was okay, and he waved his hook at 
me. 
"Farean,  make sure Korth  knows  where his rider is. "I suggested.  
"I already  have", she said, " he’s leading  a rescue  team to the beach. " 
My foot dragged in the water as Farean skimmed over the surface.  
"Up, "I encouraged her, now that we’d gotten rid of all the extra 
weight.  
She pulled up and flew  to the lakeshore easily, landing in the soft 
sand.  
"I could have made it with him", she said indignantly. " He didn’t  need to 
jump. " 
"I know", I said, rubbing her between the ears like she loved.  
Suddenly, the concussion of an explosion cracked the sky, co ming 
from the direction of the camp. The ground rumbled and shook 
under our feet.  
"What  was that?" I asked, as Farean leapt into the sky.  
We flew cautiously toward the direction of that awful sound, 
Farean staying high enough that nothing could hit us. As we flew 
over the camp, I saw the smoking crater where a section of the north 
205  Ash Rober ts 
 wall had once been. The Goblins were already inside, but they  must 
have found a stash of firerock and were going to use it to level the 
camp and everything in it.  
The sky above us darkened, and I looked up to see a swarm of red 
dragons descending through the clouds toward the camp, their 
archers spitting arrows. The  Dragoneers had arrived. But the Goblins 
still had the firerock. I didn’t want to imagine what one of those 
stones could do to a dragon. Still, two could play at that game. I had 
a piece of the explosive rock myself. I’d gotten so distracted that day 
with Lewon that I’d never reported its existence.  
Taking advantage of the momentary distraction, Farean and I flew 
towards our salvation. We skimmed the surface of the water to the 
beach. I started unfastening the buckles in preparation of landing 
while keeping  an eye out.  
Unfortunately, A Goblin lookout spotted us. I could see him 
waving his arms and shouting at his compatriots.  
"Farean,  if we fly over, can you grab it?" 
"Vernis  says that if my talons  scratch  it, it will ignite. " 
"Damn, " I said, stealing Authan d’s favorite epithet. Most of the 
Goblin archers were engaged with the Dragoneers. Even if they saw 
us, they wouldn’t be able to maintain continuous fire towards the 
beach. We twisted away and circled back. "Well, it’s about time I 
caught that glove."  
We f einted a few times to get a good feel for the rhythm of their 
shooting. There was a ten second gap between the end of one volley 
and the beginning of the next. Ten seconds wasn’t much. Farean 
would have to be traveling at full speed while I tried to pry a rock out 
of the dirt from her back. To make matters worse, in order to get 
into position, she would have to rotate at the last minute, leaving me 
completely exposed to errant arrows.  
I waited for another volley to pass. How many arrows had they 
brought wit h them. Surely, they’d have to run out soon.  
The archers took their usual pause, and we dove from our position 
in the trees. We sped for the red veined rock glittering in the filtered 
Royal Dragoneer   206 
 sunlight, each powerful beat of Farean’s wings propelling us towards 
the ground. I breathed deeply, forcing myself to relax.  
Three seconds until the next arrow volley.  
Two seconds.  
Farean flipped upside.  
One second.  
I extended my arms over my head towards the ground. Or was it 
under my head?  
My fingers touched the rock. For a breath, I thought I’d missed it, 
but it came free of the ground and into my hands as Farean 
completed her rotation.  
Another beat of her wings pushed us away.  
An arrow brushed past my face, just kissing my skin.  
I put my hand to the wound and nearly dropped  the stone. I 
tucked the head -sized rock under my arm and then felt for the cut 
again, my fingers coming away wet with blood. But it was only a 
small wound. We’d been damn lucky.  
Farean rose back above the trees, well beyond the range of the 
archers. The b attle had become a stalemate. Dragonback archers 
were keeping the Goblins from their war machine, but likewise, they 
were keeping us from getting close enough to do real damage.  
I searched for Lewon and Calen in the crowd of Dragoneers, but I 
didn’t see th em anywhere. Perhaps they were with the Colonel and 
the injured wherever they were hiding. When I asked Farean if she 
could locate Calen, she shook her head and flashed me a jumbled 
image of Lewon and Calen fighting alongside Goblins.  
"What  was that?" I as ked her, confused.  
"Don’t  know", she said. " I lost him." 
Could Dragons block one another? And if so, what were Lewon 
and Calen up to? Lewon was a jerk who had sold me to a gangster to 
pay his debts, but he wouldn’t side with the enemy over his own 
kind, wo uld he? Goblins had massacred his village. He’d told me that. 
Of course, it could have been a lie.  
207  Ash Rober ts 
 I pushed those thoughts aside and looked for the General instead. 
She was easy to find on the back of her great mountain of a dragon. 
I’d heard rumors , but they hadn’t done the huge creature justice. 
Flarnor made Korth look like a baby. If the Orange dragon flew in 
front of the sun, I was sure it would plunge the day into darkness. 
How did something that big even get off the ground?  
"Sheer force of will ," The General shouted as they closed the 
distance between us. "I trust this isn’t a social call."  
I shook my head and held up the firerock.  
She recoiled from it before regaining his composure. "Aren’t you 
the resourceful one?" They flew even closer, and u sing dragon -
thought to keep from being overheard, we formulated a plan.  
The General and her dragon broke away, and two greens came up 
to escort us. They were larger than Calen, but not half as large as 
Flarnor or even Korth. We had to be a sight, with our mismatched 
dragons, but no other Blue in the fleet was as agile as Farean.  
The Red -mounted archers focused on the Goblin rangers. 
Meanwhile, the more massive Oranges, replete with their bronze 
belly armor, created a barrier the Goblin arrows simply bounced  off 
of. The other Blues and Greens harried the ground forces from the 
flanks.  
With all the attention on the archers, the Goblin’s trebuchet’s 
platoon was left unmolested. Realizing this, they resumed their work 
loading firerock into the bucket. Aimed at e ither the Dragoneers or 
the camp, the damage would be devastating.  
And it was my job to keep that from happening. I looked from left 
to right, nodding to each rider in turn. We dove towards our target. 
The two Greens crisscrossed in front of me, providing cover for me 
while simultaneously making themselves harder to hit.  
I led from the rear of the formation, guiding Farean with nudges 
from my feet. These directions were passed to the other two via the 
dragons’ psychic communication. Together, we moved as if  a single 
organism.  
Royal Dragoneer   208 
 The trebuchet team noticed us and doubled their efforts to 
prepare the machine. The gap between us continued to close. I 
needed to get within fifty feet to accurately hit either the weapon or 
its ammunition. Closer than that, though, an d we would be caught in 
the explosion.  
The Greens parted, leaving us unprotected but clear to take the 
shot. The Goblin Corporal looked up, her mouth open. The ruse had 
worked; they hadn’t noticed Farean or my deadly cargo at all.  
Our escort gone, we banke d, allowing me an unencumbered view 
of the target. I could make out the individual fibers of the ropes 
holding it together. I shook my head. That level of detail shouldn’t be 
visible from this distance. I set the mystery aside for now. If I missed 
now, the re would be no second chance.  
I aimed for the heart of the machine, where I had the least chance 
of missing it entirely. With my newly enhanced vision, I couldn’t tell, 
but we seemed to be closer than I had wanted. There was nothing to 
be done for it now, and I lobbed the firerock at the trebuchet. No 
sooner than it cleared my hands and Farean banked and beat 
furiously away.  
I heard the explosion behind us and turned to look just as the 
shockwave hit us. The force completely overpowered Farean and we 
went t umbling head over tail. The turbulence passed but not before 
forcing us into an oak. I felt the crack of her wing bone though our 
bond before I heard the snap with my ears.  
Even though it wasn’t mine, the pain dulled my senses. I knew I 
needed to get out t here and heal the break, but an aching pain in my 
chest seeped my energy and sapped my will. I looked down, 
expecting to be injured but my harness was intact. Something was 
wrong, but I couldn’t figure out what because I was suddenly 
overwhelmed with exhau stion.  
Four green claws descended in front of us, the owner of each pair 
picking a side. The dragon on the right grabbed gingerly at the 
broken wing, taking care to support it in front of the break. The 
dragon on the left hooked on to the other side a mome nt later.  
209  Ash Rober ts 
 Farean seemed to be as affected by the explosion as I and hung 
limply in their embrace.  

 
 
 
The dragons lowered us to the ground with practiced ease. Hands 
unbuckled my harness and pulled me up from  my prone position 
over Farean’s neck ridge. They lifted me off her back and walked me 
around to her broken wing.  
In an instant, the fog and fatigue lifted. My dragon was hurt. I 
needed to do something.  
The healer, Tulowa pushed his way through the crowd a nd 
ordered the bystanders to help straighten Farean’s wing. As they 
worked, he shook his head and muttered, "It’s a bad break. She may 
not fly again."  
I couldn’t accept that. Farean would never accept that. She was 
born to fly. And I certainly wouldn’t acc ept that prognosis if there 
was something I could do that would guarantee her recovery.  
I pulled free of the Green riders holding me up, the same 
Dragoneers who had escorted me on the attack against the trebuchet. 
I ran to Farean’s side. The healer shouted , and his helpers grabbed at 
me. 
"Leave her be!" Authand shouted, the crowd parting for him. 
"That’s her dragon." His dislocated arm hung in a sling but, 
otherwise, he seemed to be no worse for our rescue.  
"She has no medical training," Tulowa said. He cro ssed his arms 
and squared off against the Colonel. "Her proximity will only make 
things worse."  
"Or it could comfort her dragon." Authand nodded at the men 
trying to straighter her wing as Farean writhed in agony.  
"Fine."  Tulowa nodded at his helpers, and they let me go.  
Royal Dragoneer   212 
 I called forth the magic even as I ran to her. Golden sparks flew 
from the ends of my fingertips into the leathery skin that covered her 
wing. Then I was by her side, kneeling at the break and making 
physi cal contact. The crowd grew quiet as they watched me heal my 
dragon. I could feel the bone knit back together under my hands. 
Satisfied the wing was repaired, I sat back and panted.  
"That should do it, dear. Give it a try."  
She made a halfhearted motion wi th it but otherwise continued to 
languish on the ground. I scratched at the persistent itch I’d had since 
the explosion while I tried to get her to respond.  
I examined her body but didn’t see anything wrong until I noticed 
a patch of red seeping from benea th her.  
"Help me roll her over," I shouted over my shoulder. I didn’t wait 
but started pushing at her side. "Turn on your side," I begged her.  
Tulowa’s assistants stood beside me, two on each side, and helped. 
Even the doctor himself joined the effort.  
Farean’s feeble attempts slowed and more of the Dragoneers 
joined us. Authand pressed his back against her side and pushed. 
Esgeril forced herself through the crowd and slid between the medic 
and me, placing her small hand over mine. She gave me a brief smile  
before turning to the attention at hand.  
Slowly, we rolled Farean over to her side. Splinters from the 
trebuchet laced her stomach and chest, but that wasn’t the problem. 
A section of the mast, too large to be considered a splinter, 
protruded from her che st. As thick as my arm, it had driven through 
her scales and dangerously close to her heart.  
I grabbed it with both hands and yanked. It didn’t give. I put my 
hands higher on it for leverage, ready to try again.  
Tulowa grabbed my hands and shook his head. "If you remove it, 
she will bleed out."  
"I can heal her." I said.  
"Maybe," he said. "But if the beam has pierced her heart, she will 
be dead before your magic even starts."  
213  Ash Rober ts 
 Tears welled in my eyes. "But she’ll die if I don’t." I choked back a 
sob. "What ca n I do?"  
Esgeril spoke in her, sweet, lilting southlands accent. "What if we 
pull it out slowly? She could she heal Farean’s body right behind us."  
I looked to the doctor. He scratched at his chin before speaking. 
"That could work. But you’ll have to be fa st." 
The magic surged back to my hands. "Then what are we waiting 
for?" Sparks danced from my fingertips above Farean’s hide. I 
pressed against her flesh. The faint heart beat shocked me. Where 
was the strong thrumming that soothed me to sleep on so many 
nights?  
Tulowa gripped the shaft near where it entered her. The largest of 
his assistants grabbed hold of the remainder. A hand touched my 
shoulder. I spared a glance to see Esgeril standing behind me, 
offering support.  
As they pulled, I willed the magic de ep into her body. They pulled 
slowly, inch by inch, but I still wasn’t healing her fast enough. Blood 
seeped and then gushed out of her body. I pressed harder. The 
wound and my hands grew hot.  
The broken trebuchet piece came free. I stuck my hand in the 
opening it produced, begging the blood to stop pouring out of her. 
Unbidden, I thought of Theron and how I’d run and hid in my room 
when he slaughtered his pigs. He wouldn’t recognize that sheltered 
and afraid girl kneeling here covered in dragon’s blood.  
The magic burned through me. Burning flesh filled my nostrils 
and I realized with a start that it was my own. The blood seemed to 
be slowing, but I couldn’t hear Farean anymore. After nearly a year of 
her taking up residence in my head, she was gone.  
"Come  on, don’t give up. "Tears streaked the dirt and blood that 
plastered my face. Behind me, Esgeril gripped my shoulder tighter. 
The voices of the Elves and dragons around us muffled into 
nothingness. My vision narrowed. Nothing existed but the blue 
dragon bef ore me, my hands deep in her body and Esgeril’s on mine.  
Royal Dragoneer   214 
 The magic flagged, but I willed it forward. Esgeril supported my 
weight now to keep me from collapsing. While there was still life in 
my body, I would move it into Farean’s.  
Her breathing became shallow. So shallow, in fact, that I couldn’t 
even see her chest move. Her heart was so faint that I couldn’t feel 
the beating either.  
"It’s over." A voice said.  
I shook my head. What was over?  
Tulowa’s hands shook me and pulled me from Farean.  
"She’s dead ," he said. "You did all you could. But the wound was 
too great."  
"No!" I screamed. I tried to break free from his grip, but he held 
me tight. I pounded my fists against his chest. "She’s not dead. I can 
still heal her."  
"No, you can’t." His voice grew gru ff. "Stop being hysterical and 
face the facts." He dug his fingers into my shoulder. Wincing, I 
dropped to the ground.  
A knife appeared before me, gripped by Esgeril’s thin, delicate 
hand and pointed at his abdomen. "You take your hands off her right 
now, or I will gut you in front of everybody."  
He removed his grip, and backed away from the knife, nearly 
tripping over a tuft of grass in the haste of his escape.  
Esgeril swung the knife from side to side. "Nobody comes near 
her, you hear me? You let her be. She’s as much a Dragoneer as 
anyone here. She’s earned the right to grieve as she needs." Nobody 
approached, but they didn’t leave either.  
I scampered back to Farean’s side, and tried to call forth the magic 
again, but it wouldn’t come. "No. You can’t be d ead!" I beat against 
her side with my fists. I closed my eyes and begged all the gods for 
her to come back. She just lay there. "Vernis," I whispered. "I don’t 
know who you are, but I know you’ve been helping us. Help us 
now." I didn’t know how Vernis spok e to Farean, but he wasn’t 
saying anything to me.  
215  Ash Rober ts 
 I pressed my hands against the wound again. "Come on, you 
stupid magic. Don’t fail me when I really need you." I felt a slight 
tingling in my palms and opened my eyes to see them glowing. Barely 
noticeable,  but there. I urged the golden healing light into her body. 
The crowd murmured behind me, but nobody dared approach 
Esgeril’s knife.  
I gave Farean what feeble magic I could. Salty tears ran down my 
face and onto my blood -soaked hands. The color glowing thr ough 
me changed hue. It was still golden, but richer, more alive somehow. 
"Come on, Farean. Wake up. I need you. I didn’t want you at first, 
but now I can’t live without you."  
The glowing surged. The light burned my eyes. I tried to look 
away, but it was e verywhere. Every nerve in my body screamed and 
pain overtook me. An invisible forced pushed me from her. My head 
hit the dirt, the pain and light continuing to wash over me until that 
was all that existed.  
A dragon roared.  
I recognized the sound.  
Farean ro ared, her voice strong and powerful.  
Joy filled my heart, threatening to burst it.  
Then everything went dark.  

 
 
 
I opened my eyes to find myself in yet another healer’s 
whitewashed stone room. By the light, it ap peared to be late morning. 
Bandages covered my hands, and I felt like a dragon had sat on me. I 
pushed up to sit but found more pain instead. A moan escaped my 
lips. 
Fabric rustled behind me and Esgeril’s face filled my field of 
vision. "You’re awake," she  said. "I’ll go tell the doctor." She scurried 
to the flap at the far end but stopped. She returned and put her hand 
over mine. Or at least over the bandages.  
She planted a kiss on my lips and bounded away. "You’re awake," 
she repeated, her voice noticeabl y higher, before disappearing 
outside. " Okay,  that was weird. " 
"Farean? " I reached out with my mind.  
No response came.  
A wave of incredible grief hit me. After everything I’d done, I’d 
failed. She was gone, and I’d forever be alone. " I’m sorry, Farean.  "I 
exhaled,"  "feeling my throat fill with tears.  
"Hey, I was sleeping ". Her rumbling voice filled my head with more 
than just a touch of irritation.  
"But you were dead". 
"Yes. And you saved me. "She said, as if explaining something to a 
small child. " That’s  what we do. We save each other. "This time her words 
came with warmth. I sent her an image of me hugging her tightly, 
nuzzling against her snout. She returned with an image of me kissing 
Esgeril instead.  
I blushed, even though nobody else could know what sh e’d 
thought to me. " I thought  you were asleep. " 
Royal Dragoneer   218 
 "Aye, she should be. Let yer beast rest." Tulowa said as he entered 
the room, followed by Esgeril, Authand, and General. He turned to 
his entourage, "Since I can’t keep you all out of here while I see my 
patient, you will stand back and not interfere. I assume I have your 
permission to go near her?" He glowered at Esgeril.  
She nodded sheepishly while the other two looked on the 
exchange with bemused expressions.  
"I’m supposed  to let you rest now"," I told Fare an. "But I’ll see you when 
they let me out of here. "Warmth and happiness filled my heart at the 
thought.  
Tulowa came to my side and unwrapped the gauze that covered 
my hands, then examined them. He applied a cream after that, and I 
flinched as the ointmen t stung the sensitive flesh.  
"That’s a good sign. They should heal nicely." He nodded to 
himself and applied new bandages. He listened to my heart and lungs 
and all the other pointless tests that healers subject their patients to. 
"You’re on bed rest for a  sevenday and may have a miserable couple 
days, but you’ll fully recover."  
I thanked him, and he said goodbye, giving Esgeril one final glare 
before leaving.  
The others were silent at first. I understood that. What do you say 
to the person who brought some body back from the dead? Authand 
was the first to speak.  
"You’ve gotten yourself in a fair amount of trouble, Princess 
Kalia. You disobeyed direct orders from both myself and General 
Lutania and put yourself in mortal danger. And you didn’t tell 
anybody th at you are a nestorphen."  
"A what?" I interrupted.  
He frowned at me. "A nestorphen. Someone with healing magic. 
It manifests in less than one in a thousand of us and almost never 
outside of Dragoneer families. If we had known, we would have 
approached your  training differently. Not that anyone could have 
taught you the stunt you pulled." He shook his head. "Continuing the 
219  Ash Rober ts 
 list of your infractions, you interrupt your leaders, and you destroyed 
half my camp." He raised his arms with an exasperated sigh.  
"On t he flip side, Lutania said, "you brought help faster than 
anyone else could have and almost singlehandedly defeated an entire 
legion of Goblin soldiers. I’d say that being restricted to quarters for 
a sevenday is sufficient punishment."  
Behind them, Esgeri l giggled.  
Authand turned and stared at her. "Now, I know we make certain 
allowances for Dragoneers in relationships, but if you pull a knife on 
a commanding officer again, it will be the Caves for you. 
Understand?"  
She swallowed and nodded before squeakin g out an affirmative. 
"Yes, sir."  
Authand’s words didn’t make any sense. Who was Esgeril seeing? 
It must have happened while we weren’t speaking, but I hadn’t 
noticed her with anyone. The thought that she was dating someone 
bothered me more than I thought it should. I pushed the question 
aside for now. I had a sea of others to ask.  
"Sir?" I brought everyone’s attention back to me. "Will I still be 
considered for the Dragon Run?"  
Authand deflated a little. "I didn’t want to tell you this. I thought 
you would  fail on your own merits, but that seems unlikely now." He 
bit his lip. I’d never seen him at a loss for words before. "Your father 
forbids you from competing in the Run."  
I wanted to scream. I wasn’t sure who I was more angry —him or 
Father. Probably both.  I’d never be taken seriously as a Dragoneer if 
I continued to get special treatment.  
There was a commotion behind the door, and it swung open. I 
caught a brief glimpse as Dragoneers in brown and my father’s 
guards in green stared each other down. Father’s  frame then blocked 
the view as he entered, my mother gliding in behind him.  
Lutania gave them a quick bow at the waist before exiting into the 
hallway where I could hear him scolding his Dragoneers, "Stand 
Royal Dragoneer   220 
 down, you morons. When I said let no one in, that  did not include 
the king." The door closed behind him.  
Seeing me, Mother’s composure fled, and she ran to my side, 
giving me a gentle hug.  
It was nice to feel her arms around me again, but I pulled away, 
unsure of how I felt about my parents anymore. Why were they here? 
They had abandoned me. What did they want now? To continue 
controlling me while holding me at arm’s length?  
"You sent me away," I said looking my father in the eyes. "But you 
won’t let me live the life you’ve sent me to fully. Instead, you block 
me at every turn, and make me look like a coward to my peers. Is that 
what you want?"  
He returned my glare; his features hardening into a look that 
almost always preceded a lecture. But then he sighed. "You’re right, 
Kalia. I handled this entire situ ation badly. Please forgive me."  
I couldn’t speak. In sixteen summers, I’d never heard him 
apologize to anyone. I glanced at my mother, and she nodded at me, 
tears glistening at the corners of her eyes. "I’m sorry too," she said, 
softly.  
I was still speech less, so I just nodded and looked down at my 
bandaged hands. Was this real? Where they truly going to let me live 
a Dragoneer’s life? Or was this all just for show and politics?  
My father turned to Authand. "Has she qualified for a position in 
the race?" H e asked.  
"She lost marks for her lack of discipline," he said, and my father 
nodded knowingly. "But," Authand went on, "she exhibited some of 
the best defensive and offensive flying I’ve ever seen yesterday. She’s 
the only reason this place is still standi ng. If anyone has earned a 
spot, it’s her." Having said his piece, he stepped back.  
Father turned back at me. "Well, in that case, I don’t think that I 
can, in good conscious, keep you from competing."  
"Thank you, your highness," I said, the formal honorif ic slipping 
out. It just didn’t feel right to call him daddy anymore. I wasn’t a 
221  Ash Rober ts 
 child. And "father" made me feel inferior. But he was royalty, and so 
was I. Didn’t that put us on equal footing?  
"You are welcome," he nodded at me. "I look forward to cheeri ng 
you on from the stands. Now, I am sorry we can’t stay longer, but I 
must get back Kastea. Duty calls. It always calls." He moved toward 
the door.  
Mother wrapped her arms around me once more, and this time I 
accepted her embrace. "I know you have duties now," she said, "But 
you are welcome to join us at the castle any time you are in town."  
I nodded, not trusting myself to speak.  
Once they left, Authand glanced between Esgeril and me. "I’m 
sure you two have a lot to talk about. But remember," he looked 
pointedly at Esgeril, "bed rest for a sevenday. No funny business."  
Esgeril blushed from the ears down to her toes at his statement.  
Then Authand followed my parents out the door, leaving the two 
of us alone for the first time since I had woken.  
"What’s goin g on? What is everyone hinting about?" I asked a still 
blushing Esgeril.  
She sat at the edge of my bed and placed her hand on mine. 
"Remember when you asked about me having a male dragon?"  
I remembered how upset she had gotten at the question, and how 
she’d refused to discuss it. "You said that it happened sometimes."  
"It does. In Dragoneer circles, it’s usually seen as a sign. Not many 
bond with a dragon of the opposite sex, but when it happens…" Her 
voice trailed off and she examined the stonework in the room.  
"Yes?"  
"When it happens," she drew circles on the floor with her foot, "it 
is usually a sign that the rider is gay."  
I stared at Esgeril, thinking about our friendship and all we’d been 
through together. And finally, the kiss she’d given me when I’d first 
woken. The kiss I had thoroughly enjoyed.  
"I’m gay, Kalia," she said, taking my silence for confusion. "I like 
women. But I was afraid to tell you. I know it’s not viewed the same 
in the central district as it is in the provinces."  
Royal Dragoneer   222 
 I opened my mouth to speak, but she held out her hand. "No, I 
need to finish. To finally say it out loud. I couldn’t tell you because I 
wasn’t sure how you’d react and…" This time I let her finish. "I love 
you."  
 
 
 
Shortly after my bedrest was over, I found myself on another 
stone bench. All Dragoneer ceremonies and events seemed to feature 
them. For everything that had changed in my life over the past year, 
here I was sitting on another stupid stone bench.  
At least I wanted to be at this ceremony. The Battle of Tulta had 
proven my worth. I wouldn’t say I single -handedly defeated the 
Goblin invaders there. But Farean would. In fact, she said it pretty 
much every chance she got.  
"Because  it’s true, "she said proudly" . Where  was everyone  else while we 
were saving  their hides?  That’s  right, hiding  in the woods  while we risked  our 
lives". 
I rolled my eyes, hoping everyone was too busy with the ceremony 
to listen in on her boasting. Never let it be said that drago ns weren’t 
the vainest creatures in all the kingdoms.  
Farean started to protest, but I blocked her out. Colonel Authand 
had finished introducing my father.  
"Today we celebrate those who helped defeat the Goblins at 
Tulta," the king began his speech, "and h onor those who lost their 
lives there. Or worse." His eyes darted to where Selkerdrim sat by 
himself. After the ceremony he would be escorted to a special facility 
at Envinyata. His body remained, but his spirit had departed.  
I forced my attention back to Father as he read off the list of 
names. So many killed. So many broken. I made a silent vow to do 
whatever it took to prevent such a tragedy from happening again.  
"Of course,  we will", Farean agreed.  
With each name, the crowd grew more somber. Dragoneers made 
up the majority of those assembled, with dragons gathered in the 
Royal Dragoneer   224 
 grass beyond the amphitheater. The rest of the audience consisted of 
nobles and other dignitaries.  
"Fortunately, as in most battles, while much was lost, much was 
gained," Father continu ed. "Many of the Dragoneer recruits proved 
themselves that day. Even with their dragons grounded, they 
demonstrated the merit of a ranged weapon. The wall held as long as 
it did thanks to the efforts of the Red riders.  
The red dragons trumpeted in the fiel d as their riders cheered. I 
risked a glance at Esgeril. Surrounded by those in her corps, she 
seemed genuinely happy. And I sincerely hoped she was, despite my 
rejection of her romantic interest in me. It wasn’t that I didn’t like 
her. It was just that I’ d truly taken her evaluation of me to heart. 
Maybe once, I had been a girl who put on independence until 
someone came along to take care of me. But now, I wanted to be a 
woman who took care of herself and her dragon. Maybe someday I’d 
have a relationship t hat was equal parts give and take, but first I had 
to learn how to just be me.  
"When the Greens took to the skies," my father was still talking, 
"their agile maneuvering kept them out of harm’s way while 
distracting the Goblins from the final counter attac k." The Green’s 
cheers at this praise were more muted. They had taken the brunt of 
the casualties on the day. I guess the most agile group of dragons 
wasn’t fast enough.  
It put my teeth on edge to see Lewon sit there with his peers. 
Somehow he’d managed on ce again avoid any responsibility for the 
devastation he’d caused. Somebody in the camp was covering for 
him. I would make it my life’s mission to find out who and bring 
Lewon’s deeds to light.  
"Once the siege weapons were destroyed, the heavy Orange 
drago ns made quick work of the remaining forces." True to form, 
those dragons and their riders provided the most noise, stomping and 
beating against each other causing a ruckus so loud I thought the 
entire building would come down.  
225  Ash Rober ts 
 "Finally, the Blue dragons ou t-raced the retreat, while the others 
rushed healers and supplies to the wounded." Farean and I hadn’t 
been part of either effort, recovering as we were from her injuries in 
the battle, but you would have never known any of that from how 
she took part in t he Blues’ cheer.  
"Aside from the efforts of the whole, there are certain individuals 
that need to be especially recognized." I sat up straighter, and Farean 
stopped in the continuing Blue cheer.  
"She may have been slow to accept her role and we were defini tely 
slow to accept her into your ranks, perhaps me most of all. But at the 
Battle of Tulta, Princess Kalia and Farean proved beyond argument 
that they have the skills, the wits, and the grit to be called 
Dragoneers. If not for them, vital help would have taken much 
longer to arrive, and only they were able to stay aflight in the face of 
the Goblin siege and discover a way to destroy their advantage. If not 
for their brave actions, Tulta would have ended much differently."  
More cheering.  
"Not as much as there should  be". Farean whined.  
"Enjoy  the praise  and admiration  of those who recognize  our worth.  Don’t  
worry about the others.  Most of them have been poisoned  by Lewon’s  lies. They 
will understand  eventually. " 
"They should  understand  now. We saved them." 
"I know," I said, apparently aloud, because Esgeril turned and 
stared at me.  
"You should  just mate her and be done with it. "Farean said, catching my 
response to that stare. " That’s  the dragon  way". 
"I’m not a dragon. And it’s not that simple."  
She let out  a little huff. " That’s  not what your heart says. You desire her". 
"Maybe,  but I can’t be distracted  by that right now. "I turned my 
attention back to the speech, but Father wasn’t talking. Instead, he 
was glaring at me with an outstretched hand. All eyes were on me.  
I looked around, unsure of what had happened while Farean and I 
were arguing.  
Esgeril caught my eye and gave a nod towards the podium.  
Royal Dragoneer   226 
 I stood and scurried to the front as everyone watched.  
I found myself next to Father, unsure what to do.  
"I was slow to accept my daughter as a Dragoneer," he addressed 
the crowd. "As I’m sure you all were. A thousand years of tradition 
broken by a young girl. But she has demonstrated skills and abilities 
that prove she is more suited for a life guarding our skie s with you 
than a life in the castle walls. And for her actions that day, it is my 
great honor to, by the recommendation of General Lutania and 
unanimous vote of the Council of Elders, issue the Golden Leaf to 
Princess Kalia of Kastea."  
I gasped. Murmurs w ent through the crowd. The Golden Leaf was 
the highest honor in all Darneta. Nobody had even received it since 
Father had been king. He smiled at me, gesturing me forward. I took 
a small step and gulped. He reached into his pocket a pulled out a 
pin. The g olden leaf glittered in the morning sun as he worked the 
point through the leather of my harness. After fastening the clasp, he 
stepped back, clapped his hands together, and applause erupted from 
the stands.  
I had finally made my father proud and been acce pted by my 
peers.  
But that isn’t what made me truly happy on that day.  
It was the glow of unconditional love and oneness radiating into 
me through my connection with Farean.  
The thing that made me happy was a dragon . 
 
 


 
 
Sign up to my newsletter for a free book  
 
To say that Authand yearned for adventure would be a lie. 
Life on his father's farm was hard - always too much to d o and 
never quite enough to eat  - but it was his and that suited him 
just fine.  
But sometimes life doesn't give us what we want. While 
hunting, Authand finds something unthinkable, a lone dragon 
egg. Imprinting on a dragon hatchling means his life will be 
anything but  ordinary. Especially when his father, the gentlest 
man he'd ever known, reacts violently.  
Armed with nothing more than his wits - and a dragon - 
Authand must find his way to the famed Dragoneers for a place 
to call home in a world that has little love for  a Black man or a 
feral dragon   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Sign up now  
 
http://bit.ly/feraldragon  

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ash Roberts  
 
 
 
 This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and 
incidents either are the product of the author’s imagination or are 
used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or 
dead, events, or locales is entirely coincidental.   
 
Copyright © 2020 by Ash Roberts  
 
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reprod uced or 
used in any manner without written permission of the copyright 
owner except for the use of quotations in a book review.   
  
 
 
 
To my wife, who believes in me more than I tend to believe in 
myself
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
It takes a village to  write a book. I couldn’t have done it without 
the help and support of my village.  
 
Monica, who is much smarter than me and taught me much of 
what I know about the craft, Chrishaun , Heather A and Heather 
D for letting me bounce ideas off of them, Ripley for phenomenal 
editing, Anna, who provided me with the kernel of the idea for 
this book, Riley for babysitting while I wrote, Inara for believing 
in me, and my mother for always enco uraging me, ever since 
the first time I wrote a story in the fourth grade.  

 
 
 
I woke from a nap I hadn’t intended to take to find the sun high in 
the sky. I was supposed to be meeting someone in the castle right 
now. I shouldn’t have gone out at all, but Elves are made of nature, 
and it calls to us. At least, that’s the excuse I would  give if I got in 
trouble. But I wouldn’t because I was the Princess.  
On the west side of the property, a large meadow separated my 
home from the city below. A hill gave a magnificent view of stone 
buildings and thatched roofs and farmland beyond it. It wa s as close 
to seeing the world from the sky as I wanted to get.  
I was nearly back to the castle when, a shadow sped across the 
ground, crossing mine. Large. Winged.  Dragon.  My heart raced, and 
an uncontrollable panic rose inside of me.  It’s just flying over. It won’t 
come back. But even as I thought it, the rider circled back, the huge 
Orange beast he controlled barrelling down on me. I ducked inside 
the nearest doorway, gasping for breath. Hidden in the cool darkness 
of its shaded overhang, my mind slip ped back to the day of my fifth 
birthday.  
My grandfather held estates in the south, close to the front of our 
war with the Orc’s kingdom of Glamhoth. My mother didn’t 
approve, but because it was my birthday, Grandfather let me ride 
with him as he made his rounds that day. On our way back, the horse 
suddenly snorted and balked. Grandfather spurred the animal on, but 
it almost bucked us off.  
While the mare settled back on all four hooves, I saw them. "Ooh, 
dragons," I squealed, pointing at the two winged -creatures low over 
the horizon.  
Royal Dragoneer   10 
 Grandfather tensed behind me. He yanked at the reigns. "Move, 
you drafted animal, or I’ll feed you to those beasts myself." He 
regained control of the horse and we galloped back to his house. I 
bounced in the saddle and grabbed tightly at the arm he held around 
me. 
"To arms," he shouted as we rode. "Orcs attack on dragons. To 
arms!"  
Farmhands streamed from the fields to the guardhouses where 
soldiers handed out swords, staves, and other weapons. Closer to the 
house, tradespeople assembled any tools at hand for defence, while 
children stacked buckets by the well.  
At the stables. Grandfather jumped off his mount before we even 
stopped. He pulled me down and carried me inside as easily as I did 
one of my dolls. We cut through the kit chens where the cooks were 
stripping the room of its knives and cleavers, sticking them into belts 
and holsters.  
In the sitting room, The Royal Guard surrounded my parents, 
swords pointing outward. They saw us and parted, making way. 
"Kalia!" Mother cried,  grabbing me, a terrified look in her eyes.  
"Get to the kitchens," Grandfather commanded. "You can hide in 
the root cellar. You will be safe there." He pushed through the guard 
and took down the polished broadsword that hung above the mantle.  
"Dad, no," Mo ther said. "Come with us."  
He held the weapon up, checking that the blade had remained true 
after sitting idle so long. "This is my land, and I will defend it," he 
said. "And defend you." Without another word, he was gone.  
The guards ushered us into the kitchen and pulled open the 
cellar’s hatch. Mother carried me towards it, but I squirmed out of 
her grasp. "My dolly," I cried. Guards reached for me, but I 
scrambled between their legs. My young mind understood there was 
danger. That was exactly why I had  to save it.  
I’d left it on the parapet, the low stone wall surrounding the 
second floor. It was the best vantage point of Grandfather’s 
property.  
11  
 As I stood at that wall, I saw my grandfather down below in the 
courtyard, raising his sword to an Orc mounte d on a huge green 
dragon.  
He swung at the beast, but it caught the sword in its talons. 
Another great claw flipped him into the air, his body crashing into 
the stone rampart. He did not move.  
"No," I cried. Hands grabbed at me, and I struggled, biting and 
kicking like my life depended on it.  
"Hush, child." The Captain of the Royal Guard held me tighter.  
I stopped struggling and fell limp in his arms. Tears fell freely as 
he took me back to my parents.  
"Lord Hollysword is dead," he told them somberly.  
I don’ t remember much more from that day. We spent hours in 
that cellar. Only the occasional crashing noise made it through the 
thick door. When it finally opened, the Captain looked down at us, a 
tall Dark Elf in Dragoneer garb standing at his side.  
"The fight is over," The Captain told us. "Thanks to this man and 
his dragon."  
The Dark Elf wore dark orange leather and a bloody bandage over 
his right hand. Father thanked him for his bravery and gave him 
money for a healer. But I knew he had to be bad to ride a dr agon. A 
dragon killed my Grandfather right before my eyes. I did not trust 
this man or the enormous Orange beast that paced outside our door. 
Dragons were killers. They were evil.  
And now, back in the here and now, a dragon was invading my 
home once again.  Was it an attack or some kind of pretense at help? 
Either way, I had to pull it together. I had to warn my parents, or at 
least the guards. I needed to move, but I stood there in my shadowed 
doorway, shaking for some moments before I found the courage to 
continue into the castle.  
I hurried to the wing where Father conducted business. I wasn’t 
exactly forbidden from being there. He just didn’t like "silly little girls 
running about." But I was neither silly nor running, I was on a 
mission.  
Royal Dragoneer   12 
 "If you don’t sen d more resources," a deep and scratchy voice 
said, "we won’t be able to cover the front. Fawla won’t be the only 
province to fall." Voices like that came from long years of yelling 
from dragon.  
The dragon wasn’t an attacker. Inside, my father held court wi th 
one of the Dragoneers of Darneta. They were our army who rode 
dragons into battle during times of war. I knew I shouldn’t eavesdrop 
just outside the door, but if I was to be a competent wife to the next 
king of Darneta someday, I needed to be informed. And the heavy 
oak door was slightly open anyway. It was an easy enough mistake. 
The thing weighed more than I did.  
I leaned closer. I could justify it all I wanted, but truly I was 
curious about the Dragoneer. I couldn’t understand how any man 
could spend his life around those terrible beasts. I wanted to catch a 
peak at someone that crazy.  
Father sat on his throne wearing the thick fur robes he reserved 
for formal occasions. And the man pacing before him was someone I 
instantly recognized. He was the same Draogoneer from that horrible 
day ten years ago. In place of the hand that been bandaged the last 
time I saw him, a metal hook protruded from a harness around a 
rounded stump. This must be Authand, the famous Dragoneer 
Colonel.  
He turned, glancing my direc tion, and I ducked back behind the 
door, holding my breath. Thankfully, he must not have seen me 
because he resumed his ranting about feed for his dragons.  
"You will have to make do," Father told him. When I peeked 
again, I could see him gripping the armre sts of his chair. "The 
Goblins have been destroying our crops. The people will revolt if I 
send food to dragons before Elves."  
"The people will die if the dragons aren’t up to fighting strength," 
the rider thundered back. "There is more to Darneta than you r cushy 
seat here in Kastea. You need to stop thinking of popularity and start 
thinking of survival. If you don’t, well, the other kingdoms have need 
of Dragoneers as well." I couldn’t believe Father let him talk like that. 
13  
 Each kingdom had its own corp of  Dragoneers. It had never 
occurred to me that a fleet might emigrate to another kingdom if they 
weren’t treated well. The idea felt almost treasonous. I would have 
had Authand thrown in the dungeons if he’d said such a thing to me.  
But Father stayed calm. He was angry; that was for sure. A wave 
of color flashed across his face and ears before disappearing. He took 
a breath and set his expression into a deep frown. Was Father just 
going to take the rebuke? A king shouldn’t accept criticism from 
commoners lik e this Authand. I put my hand on the door. If Father 
wouldn’t handle the matter, I would.  
"What are you doing?’ Mother demanded from behind me. "Etlin 
is waiting for you in the gardens." I would swear she was part air 
elemental the way she could sneak up o n people. She always told me 
ladies glide when they walk, not run from spot to spot like I did.  
I turned away from the gaping door casually. "I was on my way 
when I heard a noise. I think there is something wrong with Father."  
She shook her head. "More lik e you were nosing into private 
business." Her frown softened into a smile. "So, what did you learn?"  
I crossed my arms. "A Dark Elf is being belligerent towards 
Father. I don’t understand how someone like that could be in charge 
of our military."  
"They are  still Elves," she reprimanded my prejudice. "Never 
judge a person by their appearance. It is their character that counts. 
And you are one to talk about belligerence. Now go. Ladies do not 
keep their suitors waiting." She gave me a gentle push.  
"But Father -." 
"Your father can handle his own affairs without you. Just like you 
should be attending to your own affairs right now."  She held the 
same graceful poise as a moment ago, but her features looked harder 
now. It was an expression of patience wearing. I’d seen that look 
many times growing up, and it wouldn’t go well if I didn’t comply 
with her demands.  
I started jogging to the  courtyard.  
"Ladies walk," she called after me.  
Royal Dragoneer   14 
 I slowed down but still couldn’t manage the gentle footfalls of my 
mother. She was a true lady, and I was something else entirely. But 
she still loved me fiercely, and I her.  
Etlin slouched on the wide stones  surrounding the fountain, one 
hand drawing slow circles in the still water. I was half an hour late for 
our meeting, at least. He straightened and stood at my noisy entrance. 
A few short steps closed the gap between us. I was still upset at 
Authand and my  mother, but I melted a little at the sight of him in 
his starched breaches and silk shirt. I smiled as he kissed my nose.  
I tried to give a girlish giggle, but, as usual, my body refused to 
behave with the grace and poise I had supposedly been born to. 
Instead, it came out as a snort.  
Etlin laughed.  
My ears turned red, but I laughed with him.  
His arms slid down my arms, taking my hands in his.  
I could have stayed there, looking into his eyes forever. Or better 
yet, we could have snuck off into the shadows and really kissed. But, 
of course, that wouldn’t have been appropriate behavior for a 
princess.  
"Guess who I saw?" I asked him, trying to return my attention to 
the problem of dragons at the castle.  
"Hopefully somebody important, considering how late you w ere." 
He grinned.  
I stuck out my tongue at him. It wasn’t very regal, but I didn’t 
care. "A Dragoneer Colonel. He was meeting with Father."  
"He probably arrived early for the hatching," Etlin speculated. 
"The other races should be here soon. Makes sense th at he would 
want to arrive beforehand to greet them."  
"The cooks have been preparing food for days. Some of it smells 
really bad." I made a face as I recalled the thick smell of blood from 
the cow they’d drained for the Nightbloods. The Wolf -shifters would  
eat the meat, so nothing would go to waste. The Humans and 
Elementals ate ordinary enough food, but what Orcs ate was 
completely disgusting. It was bad enough that Orcs were allowed in 
15  
 the castle at all. But there was an official truce now, because the 
Goblins were the enemy of us all. If we didn’t stand together, they 
would outnumber and obliterate us. Still, the Orcs’ food should have 
been illegal. Bile rose in my throat, just thinking about it.  
This brought a fresh bout of laughter from him. "I’m sure t hey 
cringe at our diet as well. But I wouldn’t mind if they didn’t come. 
Then we could keep all of the eggs for ourselves."  
My stomach revolted at the idea. "They can keep the eggs," I said. 
"Don’t we have enough dragons?"  
"Come now, you can’t mean that. T hey’re our primary means of 
fighting the Goblins. You can’t be afraid of dragons forever."  
"They killed my grandfather. I watched it happen. I’m not afraid. I 
just won’t forgive." Of course, it was a lie. I’d been terrified by the 
mere shadow of a dragon e arlier. It had made me feel like that 
helpless five -year-old all over again.  
Etlin stood up straight. "A dragon is a weapon, just like a sword. 
One cannot blame the weapon for the wielder’s actions. Beside, that 
war is over. They’re our allies now."  
I hate d it when Etlin got all manly and lordly on me. As if I 
needed a lecture on dragons and swords and wars. He was so nice to 
look at and kiss, though. But I was completely not in the mood 
anymore.  
"Maybe you should leave," I said letting of or his hand.  
"But—I—We," he stammered, surprised I would turn him away 
after he’d given me such a fine argument against my silly girlish ways.  
"Go, really," I said, dismissing him. "We’ll talk later."
 

 
 
 
The hatchery lay just a mile east of the capital. Previous times the 
dragons had chosen Darneta for laying their broods, the other noble 
children liked to come down here to gawk at the infant dragons and 
the young Dragoneers chosen to care for them. I alwa ys had an 
excuse. I was ill, I’d injured myself, I was needed at the castle.  
But while my parents had humored me when I was younger, I was 
fifteen now. By this time next year, I’d be making preparations for 
my marriage to Etlin.  
So, I couldn’t avoid the du ties of state any longer. Instead, I was 
stuck in an underground cavern staring at a dragon egg. And if that 
wasn’t bad enough, there were dozens more where that had come 
from. They were tucked behind a large wooden door waiting for their 
turn on the raise d dais in the center of the cave, with several rows of 
stone benches forming a U around it. At least the royal box was 
toward the back, even if its elevation made me feel more exposed.  
Steam rose from nearby pools, making the air humid. No natural 
light pe netrated the underground space, so lanterns were suspended 
from the ceiling, casting a flickering yellow glow on everything.  
"When is it going to do something?" I asked, fidgeting in my seat. 
"We’ve been here an hour already." Pretending to be bored wasn’t  as 
easy as I’d hoped, when all I really wanted to do was flee.  
"You are witnessing the miracle of life, young lady." Mother 
patted my hand firmly enough to express her disproval. "A new soul 
being born into the world. It cannot be rushed."  
How could she f orget that one of those ‘miracles of life’ had 
ended her father’s? How could she be so forgiving?  
Royal Dragoneer   18 
 "But I don’t want to be here," I moaned. "I want to go home and 
witness the miracle of a soft bed."  
Mother glared at me, and I knew I had crossed a line. She gave me 
her disappointed nod, the kind that meant her reprimand would 
come later, in private, where I couldn’t make a scene. Father, 
however, had no such qualms. He turned in his chair and leaned in 
close to my face. I pulled back, but he grabbed my wrists —right 
there in front of the guards and servants, and even the commoners 
closest to our box.  
"You are the princess of Darneta, the greatest of the Seven 
Kingdoms," he said. "You have a duty to your people to be present 
for important events. You don’t have to like it. Now, sit and watch 
these eggs until something happens. And when they hatch, you will 
cheer and look happy."  
He turned back around in his seat, facing the dais with its egg. 
Mother passed me a cloth, and I dabbed my eyes, careful not to 
smear th e little bit of makeup I’d been allowed to wear. I glanced 
around. The guards stood stoic as ever, but the servants were doing 
their best not to look in my direction. A few rows ahead of us, I 
caught Etlin’s eyes. He looked away quickly, pretending to be 
intensely interested in the egg as it sat on the heated rocks.  
I took a breath, looking at it myself. I could do this. After all, it 
was just an egg. An egg couldn’t kill. That came later. When it 
hatched. But for now, it was just an egg, like the chicken e ggs I ate 
for breakfast, only larger.  
I studied it. It stood three feet high and could have been a rock if 
not for the perfect ovoid shape of it. Once, dragons had hatched in 
the wild, and the mother’s had arranged their eggs to look like natural 
formation s to protect from predators. I couldn’t image what 
predators a dragon could have.  
The egg wobbled.  
I sucked in my breath. It wouldn’t be just an egg much longer.  
It wobbled again, and a crack formed near the top.  
19  Ash Rober ts 
 I tried not to panic, gripping my seat with  both hands to keep 
myself from jumping up and running out.  
Silence fell over the crowd as we watched the egg fracture.  
The potential Dragoneers scrambled for position, the older teens 
pushing to get in front while some of the younger contestants sought 
shelter behind their larger competitors. Save for the Dwarves, who 
abhorred the very thought of flight, every kingdom race was 
represented on the hatching floor. A Wolf -shifter and a Nightblood 
shoved each other, nearly breaking into a fight.  
Then, a tapping  sound froze everyone, and a blue beak thrust 
through a crack in the shell. Tiny silver talons poked out next, 
pushing the opening wider. Finally, the egg split open in fractured 
pieces, and an infant dragon spilled from it.  
It pushed up on its wing claws and craned its head, looking around 
and screeching like one of Father’s racing hawks, except louder. It 
stood about five feet tall, and light filtered through the translucent 
wings to cast a blue pall over the nearby contestants. As it swung its 
head this way and that, crying for its mother, I got a good look at its 
odd-shaped skull.  
"What’s wrong with it?" I blurted.  
The entire audience turned at my outburst and stared. I felt my 
ears growing red. But there was something obviously wrong with the 
dragon. Us ually, the monsters had large, pointy, Elf -like ears. They 
didn’t have stubby little flaps.  
The dignitaries and hopefuls weren’t the only one whose attention 
I had caught.  
The baby dragon turned its head and looked at me, its eyes 
seeming to pierce my soul  and examine the very heart of me.  
"She". I heard a voice whisper behind me.  
I whirled around but there was no one there. Slowly, I turned back 
to the dragon.  
"She", the voice said again. " I’m a girl, like you. Don’t  worry;  my features  
will grow in time to look more like yours". 
Royal Dragoneer   20 
 I jumped up, sending my chair flying. I scrambled backwards, 
away from the dragon.  
It hissed and stumbled towards the stands, barreling through the 
contestants on the hatching floor.  
The spectators backed away, crowding the sides of  the viewing 
area. 
It – "I keep telling  you, I’m a she" – screeched again and started 
climbing up the rock wall that separated the arena from the royal 
viewing box.  
I cowered in the corner as the dragon approached. The little blue 
creature wasn’t as tall a s a grown man, but all I could see, in my 
mind’s eye, was the huge green dragon that had killed my 
Grandfather.  
"Get that beast under control," my father shouted.  
Guards closed in around my parents with spears pointed at the 
evil thing.  
"No, protect my dau ghter." He shooed them away. "It’s after the 
Princess. Save her." He pulled his own sword out. It was only a 
ceremonial piece with a gem -encrusted hilt and polished blade, but I 
appreciated the gesture.  
A guard stepped towards the dragon; it eyed him with tilted head 
as if trying to decide if he were friend or foe. Three more guards 
converged around me.  
The dragon saw this and leapt into the air. I thought it was going 
to fly away, but instead the creature tumbled back to the ground right 
on top of me.  
My b reath left me as its head pushed into my chest. I couldn’t 
move. This was it. Hopefully Grandfather would meet me on the 
other side to lead me to the Fields of Arman. Maybe there was a 
special section for those who had been killed by dragons.  
But instead o f chomping down on my head or impaling me with 
its sharp claws, the dragon turned towards the guards, rose to its hind 
legs and flapped its wings.  
I sucked in a breath as its weight lifted off my chest.  
21  Ash Rober ts 
 A guard thrust his sword, and the dragon backed from it, pinning 
me once again.  
"Get off of me," I gasped, bringing my arms up to my head. To 
the guards, I pleaded. "Help me."  
The dragon hissed and snapped at the men as they pressed closer. 
From under the beast, I could see their expressions as my father’s 
soldiers debated whether they could kill it.  
"Stop!" shouted a voice, echoing through the chamber. "Get away 
from that dragon," Colonel Authand commanded. He hadn’t been 
present at the beginning of the hatching, but he was here now. His 
Orange dragon, too l arge to fit into the hatching cavern, peeked its 
head through a door and trumpeted in displeasure.  
Why was he protecting a dragon that was attacking me? A growl 
of frustration rose up in my throat. " Wait,  had I just growled? " 
"I’m not attacking  you. "The whispery voice in my head said. " I’m 
keeping  you safe from these assassins ". 
The Colonel closed the distance to the seating area and leapt over 
the wall. He reached the guards surrounding us and yanked the first 
one away by his sword arm. The guard twisted  and swung at 
Authand, but despite his disability the Colonel dodged the blow with 
ease. 
"Back off," he said, and the other guards obeyed. "She is only 
protecting her rider."  
"Exactly.  You are my rider and it is my duty to save you from these 
scoundrels. " 
That was when I realized the voice I’d been hearing was the 
dragon hatchling. But its mouth didn’t move when it spoke to me. It 
was speaking directly into my mind.  

 
 
 
"But I can’t be a rider," I protested. "I’m th e Princess."  
Authand moved towards me and the guards gave him even more 
space. I could feel the dragon relax as it slid off of me gently. Relief 
washed over me. But the feeling was odd, alien, like it wasn’t my own 
emotion but something coming from outside  of me. I looked at the 
dragon and cocked my head in a silent question. It actually nodded, 
and I added that to the long list of really weird things that were 
happening today.  
Father and Mother came forward, cautiously, keeping well out of 
the reach of the  dragon. Mother looked worried. Father looked angry 
and perplexed.  
"Dragons don’t care about rank or society," Authand explained. 
"They choose their riders based on the qualities of a good companion 
and rider. Sometimes, they even see traits in us that we,  ourselves, 
cannot."  
"That’s  right, "the voice in my head said."  And you are the bravest  and 
most loyal in all of Darneta ". 
A large Orange dragon snout poked through the doorway and 
snorted.  
The Colonel shook his head. "Or sometimes, the dragon is just 
young and foolish and exercises poor judgement."  
I bristled at the comment, but I had to agree. This stupid animal 
had made a terrible mistake. I could not possibly be a good 
companion or rider to something I despised.  
Authand rubbed the dragon on her shoulde r, and conflicting 
emotions filled me. She seemed to be enjoying it, and that made me 
happy for some reason. But part of me wanted to push him away and 
Royal Dragoneer   24 
 do it myself. Which was crazy. How could I want to touch a dragon, 
let alone rub its shoulder?  
The drago n’s spiked tail stopped switching back and forth. The 
Colonel patted her twice and took a step towards me. He took my 
hand in his. It was dry and rough, scratching my delicate skin. He 
spoke barely above a whisper, words meant for me and no other. 
"Princes s Kalia, I know this may not be want you wanted, but this is 
a baby who needs you now. You have a duty to it, and your nation, to 
help her grow into an adult."  
I pulled away from him. He had no business telling me what I had 
to do. "But I can’t." My eyes p leaded with his.  
He shook his head. "You will learn." He gave a small smile and 
guided my hand to the dragon’s back. Loud enough for the crowd to 
hear, he said, "Now, the first step is to get your dragon out of the 
seating area and into the back. Korth wil l meet you there to get you 
started, and we can give the other eggs a chance to hatch."  
He pushed again, and I took a step forward. I had been so caught 
up in the events of the past few minutes that I had forgotten that 
everybody, literally every important  person in Darneta, and more 
than a few from the other kingdoms, had watched this drama unfold. 
I’d made enough of a scene for one day and decided that the back 
portion of this cavern would be more comfortable than the looks I 
was getting.  
As I passed my p arents, I glanced at them. Father scowled.  
I wanted to tell him this was his fault. If he hadn’t insisted I attend 
the hatching, none of this would have happened.  
Mother bit her lip. I caught her eyes, glistening with tears. The 
action of looking at me see med to burst the dam of her composure 
and she started crying.  
Father took her in his arms to console her. He looked up as 
Authand led us out of the royal box. Mother’s tears hadn’t softened 
him; if anything, he was angrier now.  
Fine, let him be angry. I wa sn’t exactly happy about it either.  
"Do you want me to eat him?" 
25  Ash Rober ts 
 "Shush, you. There will be no eating of anybody," I said aloud. 
The crowd pressed away from us even more.  
I stopped at the wall. I couldn’t climb over it in my dress without 
being immodest. The Colonel nodded me forward, but I stood 
motionless. He cocked his head towards the dragon door and seemed 
to realize my plight. He stepped behind me and scooped me up.  
I let out a shriek at being airborne but was back down on the 
other side a moment lat er. The crowd seemed to find it funny. Great, 
even more to be embarrassed about.  
"If they tease you, I will eat them". 
"I said no eating people." The tittering and murmuring ceased.  
Authand gestured me forward and we started towards the rear 
chamber again.  He leaned in close and whispered, "You know, you 
can communicate silently with her. It would be better to do so than 
to keep publicly reporting her infant whims about eating people."  
"How do I do that?"  
"Think of her and just say the words in your mind," he said.  
I took in the sight of this creature who had adopted me as her 
mother and thought at it, Can you hear me? 
"Yes, Kalia.  I can hear you. And please  don’t call me ‘it’. That hurts my 
feelings ". 
"Sorry". I looked down.  
"Practice this, both of you," Au thand said. "In time, you will learn 
to pay attention to only the thoughts directed at you, instead of 
hearing all of them."  
I cringed at the word " all." In spite of everything that had been 
going on, my thoughts had gone to Etlin when the Colonel had 
swoo ped me up in his arms. I had wished it had been Etlin’s arms 
instead.  
"Have you had a mating  flight with him yet?" 
Authand snorted. Wait. Could he hear her too? Could he hear me? 
Did being stuck with a dragon mean I had to give up any semblance 
of privacy?  "What is your name?" I asked her, forgetting to say it with 
my mind.  
Royal Dragoneer   26 
 "I am Farean.  We are going to be great friends. " 
I doubted that, but kept my mouth shut as we reached the rear 
doors. They were bigger than normal ones, but not quite as large as 
the one s leading to the throne room. Authand pulled them open 
effortlessly, and Farean and I were able to pass through side by side.  
We entered a cavern that dwarfed the hatching chamber. Fires 
dotted the floor clustered around caches of eggs. Acrid smoke 
cloaked  the ceiling and stained the walls. I pulled out Mother’s cloth 
to dab the beads of sweat forming at my brow.  
The enormous Orange dragon from the door earlier met us. I tried 
to back away, but with Authand behind me, I had nowhere to go. 
"This is Korth," I  was introduced, as if he were a lord or something. 
"He will help you get settled." Authand stepped past us and rubbed 
the behemoth’s muzzle. The man’s gaze seemed almost that of a 
lover’s. A small smile flickered across his lips before his features 
return ed to the gruff expression he usually wore. He shouted over to 
where some Elves and smaller dragons were huddled, "Bring out the 
next egg. C’mon. Let’s get this show moving before they all hatch in 
here."  
The group burst into a frenzy of activity as two gr een dragons 
lifted the egg from a nest and lowered it onto a cart. The Elves 
pushed it to the door and out to the hatching grounds. I watched as 
they arrayed themselves in a circle and hoisted the egg. The five 
holding it up seemed to struggle as the sixth  pulled the cart out. They 
lowered it onto the hot rocks and the taller one leaned in and 
whispered to the egg. That done, they hurried back inside.  
"Those are second year trainees. Next year, you might help with 
the hatching if eggs are laid in Darneta ag ain," Authand said.  
"Over my dead body." I glanced at the dragon hatchling beside me 
and gulped. To get the image of it eating me out of my mind, I 
focused on a tall boy as he broke away from the group. Authand 
waved him towards us. "This is Lewon, the hea d of his class."  
"What did he say to the egg?" I asked as he approached.  
27  Ash Rober ts 
 "He gave it permission to hatch. It’s not a science, as Farean just 
proved, but they generally wait until we tell them it’s show time."  
Lewon closed the gap between us and held out his hand in the 
typical manner of the outer provinces. I raised the back of my hand 
to his, hinting at the proper etiquette for being introduced to a lady. 
He looked at it like he wasn’t sure what he was supposed to do. My 
ears turned red and I lowered my hand.  
"I bet you wouldn’t  mind a mating  flight with him". My ear tips grew 
warmer, and Lewon broke out laughing. Great, I had a faulty dragon 
that anybody could listen in on.  
"Just the other dragons.  I can’t help what they share with their riders. " 
"Well, just shut up and stop embarrassing  me". I stomped off like a 
child, but it followed me as I headed away from the others.  
"She." Her ‘voice’ was filled with annoyance. " How would  you like it 
if I called you an it?" She turned her head towards Korth and nodd ed 
before returning her attention back on me. " He says we must go down to 
the pool, so you can wash me". 
"What?" I said, forgetting to think my words to her. "Do I look 
like a servant to you? I’m not " touching " you with a ten -foot pole." 
The Elves and drag ons paused their work of loading an egg as my 
voice echoed through the underground cavern.  
There were entirely too many dragons near me. Arenaline coursing 
through my body made me jittery, every nerve screaming for me to 
run. I glanced around. If an adult dragon couldn’t come through the 
door to the hatching floor, there must be another exit.  
Korth directed the events of the backroom as a young red dragon 
entered with the Nightblood candidate I’d seen earlier, and the 
second years brought out another egg.  
Behind the Orange beast, a tunnel large enough for even his bulk 
retreated into darkness. Flickering dots of light from torches on the 
walls receded into the distance.  
I headed in that direction.  
Farean followed me. " Where  are you going?  The pool is the other way". 
To add to her mental plea, she trumpeted and floundered around the 
Royal Dragoneer   28 
 dirt floor, kicking up a cloud of dust and getting everyone’s attention 
again.  
I picked up my pace, now as close to a run as my dress would 
allow.  
Farean bounced awkwardly as she t ried to gallop to keep up.  
Authand intercepted me before I could reach the tunnel, grabbing 
my arm and nearly yanking it out of its socket. "You’re supposed to 
stay with your dragon here at the hatchery until she is old enough to 
fly, and then you leave fo r the training grounds."  
I’d had enough of people grabbing me and pushing me around for 
one day. I pulled loose from his grip; more out of surprise on his part 
than strength on mine. "I am not sleeping on a dirt floor in what 
amounts to a stable. There’s b een a huge mistake. I’m not fit to take 
care of Farean. I’m going home where there are no dragons."  
I pushed past him and on to the tunnel.  
Lewon started after me, but Authand stopped him. "Wait," he 
said. "She won’t get far."  
"I’ll show him", I thought as  I plunged into the darkness.  
 
 
 
The tunnel wasn’t too bad. The torches provided enough light to 
see by as it sloped up towards the surface. Compared to the heat of 
the hatching cavern, though, it was downright damp and chilly.  
Heavy footsteps followed me into the darkness. I kept up my 
pace, hoping to put some distance between me and my pursuer.  
"Wait for me," Farean whined.  
I used it as encouragement to keep going.  
At last, daylight shone at the mouth of the tunnel. I stepped into 
the open air. Dark clouds covered the sun, and cold wind gusted 
around me. I considered finding my parent’s carriage and taking it 
back, but I was in enough trouble and didn’t want to add to it. 
Instead, I hurried down the path.  
Farean followed me through the woods and into the capital. Elves 
dove out of our way and ducked behind carts and barrels as we 
walked through the streets. I wished I could do the same, but there 
was no losing her. For her part, she ignored them. Her head swive led 
as she walked, like a newborn baby on its first trip outside, which 
technically she was. Her tail swung back and forth, occasionally 
knocking over barrels of salted fish or grain. I felt a raindrop and 
quickened my pace.  
I was huffing by the time I rea ched the castle. The guard at the 
door eyed me, no doubt wondering what I was doing home without 
my parents and in such a state.  
I made it back to my room and had to light a candle. The sky had 
grown so dark that I might have mistaken it for twilight. I ha d the 
presence of mind to close my shutters before collapsing on my bed, 
Royal Dragoneer   30 
 the oak frame creaking as it distributed my weight across the four 
posters supporting a silk canopy.  
I heard shouts from the floor below, but I couldn’t concentrate on 
them. I felt ic ky and needed a bath, but all I could think about was 
sleep. I kicked off my destroyed sandals but otherwise crawled under 
the wool blankets fully dressed.  
I woke to Farean’s whining echoing in my head. " Kalia,  I can’t reach 
you. Kalia,  why did you leave me? Kalia,  come here, pleeeeeeeease. " 
I squeezed my eyes together harder, as if that would keep her 
voice out of my brain. I brought a pillow over my head, but the 
psychic connection would not be silenced. And outside, I could still 
hear the rainstorm that had descended over the city, raging and 
matching my mood.  
A knock on my door brought me out from under my pillow. 
"Enter," I called, not caring how I looked.  
A maid, the same one from yesterday, shuffled in, her head down. 
"Princess, there is a dragon in t he main hall. It says that it’s with 
you?"  
"Do I look like I have a dragon?" I snapped. "Tell it to leave. It is 
not welcome here. And draw me a bath."  
She didn’t move. "The dragon won’t leave. The porter said it came 
in with you, making it your responsibi lity. Please, my lady. Your 
parents aren’t here, and it is scaring everybody."  
"It’s scaring me as well." I sighed. "Fine. I will send it away. But 
prepare that bath, I wasn’t kidding about that."  
"Kalia,  Kalia.  Where  are you? I neeeeeed  you". 
I took the s teps two at a time. "Oh, shut up. I’m coming." I passed 
a different maid, and she stopped at my outburst. "Not you. Go do 
something." She shook her head and continued up the stairs. Great, 
now I had the servants thinking I was crazy. I wished I was crazy; it 
would be preferable to owning a dragon that would eat me at the first 
opportunity, like the bears that the Orcs trained but were always 
attacking their masters.  
31  Ash Rober ts 
 I found Farean in the great hall with a few servants, their backs 
pressed against the far wa ll. As I stepped into the room, happiness 
washed over me.  
"Kalia.  You came back". "Oh, Kalia.  I knew you’d come back". 
I hesitantly reached out to her. My hand shook as it inched closer 
to her muzzle. " Please  don’t bite me. Please  don’t bite me." 
"I would  never do that". She pushed her nose towards my hand. It 
made contact, and I jumped back. I nervously glanced around the 
room, but the servants had vanished. I reached out again. I touched 
her snout lightly and, sensing no attack, allowed the full weight to  
rest on her. Farean rewarded me with another push of contentment.  
My stomach rumbled. Except it wasn’t mine. I looked at her.  
"What’s  wrong  with me? "She thought at me" . My middle  feels weird. " 
The stomach rumbling sensation came again. The good feeling 
from our contact evaporated. "You’re hungry, Stupid. Don’t you 
know what that is?"  
Farean shook her head. I kept forgetting she was only a couple of 
hours old.  
I grabbed a passing servant. "We need some food. What do you 
eat, Farean?"  
It better not be princ ess. 
"Meat.  "She blasted the word into my brain. I didn’t know that you 
could squeal telepathically, but I couldn’t describe it any other way.  
"Get her some meat," I told the servant. "Surely we have roast 
leftover from yesterday."  
He scurried off to the kitchens. I wasn’t sure how the cooks would 
react to the request, but they needed to hurry. My stomach was 
twisting in knots, like I’d never eaten before. Then again, I guess that 
was literally true for Farean.  
The servant came back carrying a banquet plat ter piled high with 
cuts of mutton and beef. He stopped at the doorway. The platter 
wavered as his whole body quaked, threatening to overturn the meal.  
"Come on." I waved him closer.  
Royal Dragoneer   32 
 His eyes flicked between the food he was carrying and the dragon 
whipping  her spiked tail against the wall. I gestured at him again, but 
he came no closer.  
I marched over to him and grabbed the tray, taking a moment to 
glare in displeasure. "Father will hear about this." My voice came out 
low and guttural as if I were using the  dragon’s voice box instead of 
my own.  
The servant hurried off, no doubt to change his underclothes, and 
I returned my attention to my giant, terrifying pet.  
I lowered the platter in front of her. "How do we do this? Do I 
feed you? Can you use a fork?" I r eally hoped I didn’t have to place 
chunks of meat in her mouth. Some of our dinner guests, even the 
nobles, used their hands to eat, but I hated handling the mutton. The 
greasy feel of it made me queasy.  
"Just leave it where I can reach it." 
I backed away and she came up to the plate. Opening her jaw, a 
serpentine tongue uncoiled and wrapped around the roast. Then it all 
disappeared back into her maw and swallowed the food whole. She 
went back for another chunk and repeated the process. Forget 
handling the meat; I might get sick just watching her eat.  
After finishing the mutton, she licked at the juices on the silver 
platter, holding it down with one talon as it clanked against the stone 
floor. Satisfied, Farean settled into lethargy.  
I got up and decided to  check on my bath. I’d barely taken two 
steps when Farean reached out with a front claw and grabbed me. 
Shrieking, I fought against her grip as she brought me back in close 
to her body."  Kalia,  sleep with meeeeee. " 
Still fighting her grasp, I replied, "No,  I have my own bed to sleep 
in." I didn’t want to mention the bath, guilt creeping in as I recalled 
the instruction to clean her that had sent me running away from the 
hatchery.  
She didn’t respond. I craned my head to see her double lids closed 
and her bod y heaving in long breaths. Her claw loosened, but not 
enough for me to escape.  
33  Ash Rober ts 
 I pushed a final time against the talon holding me down before 
giving up. I tried to make myself comfortable. I had no idea how 
long dragons slept, but it looked like I was goin g to be there for a 
while.  
I must have dozed off. One moment Farean’s snores filled the 
silence of the room. The next, the room echoed with noise —most of 
it coming from my father.  
"What is this beast doing in the castle? Get it out of here. Kalia, 
what is the meaning of this? Why are you sleeping on the floor?" He 
wasn’t alone. He had his usual entourage of servants and guards, but 
mother was nowhere to be seen.  
A member of Father’s personal guard, apparently too dumb to 
have learned from last time, stepped  forward and poked the dragon 
with the butt end of his spear.  
Farean lifted her head and yawned, showing rows of teeth, causing 
the soldier to take a step back. She finally released me, and I dropped 
to the floor with a gentle thump. I arched my back and t wisted, trying 
to wake up my sore muscled and numb limbs.  
Father watched me complete my stretches in silence. I faced him, 
unsure of what to say. He eyed my wrinkled and muddy gown and 
shook his head. "It’s a good thing your mother wasn’t feeling well 
and went upstairs. She would have a fit if she saw you like this."  
I smoothed out the bodice as best I could and returned his stare.  
"Why is there a dragon in the castle?" he asked again.  
"Because she followed me home," I said, crossing my arms.  
The smack caught me unprepared. I hadn’t realized he could still 
move that fast. The sound echoed in the empty room as my cheek 
burned.  
Farean roared, her hot breath blowing against me as she lunged 
forward, but father didn’t move or retreat. Even if she was a drago n, 
she was only an infant, and he was a grown man and King of the 
realm.  
Royal Dragoneer   34 
 "I need some time alone with my daughter." He said to those who 
accompanied him, and they filtered out of the room, leaving only the 
three of us. "Do you want to try that again withou t the smart talk?"  
I rubbed my jaw and kept quiet.  
"I don’t know what you are playing at, but you need to get rid of 
that thing. Nobility can’t be Dragoneers. It’s ridiculous. So, you have 
a choice to make." He crossed his arms. "You can have a dragon, or 
you can be my daughter. You choose."  
"Choose?" I asked, incredulous. "This wasn’t my decision. I don’t 
want to be a Dragoneer. I didn’t want to go to the hatching in the 
first place. But you made me go and then sat there and lectured me 
on duty. Well, gues s what. Now I’m stuck with this duty whether you 
want me to have it or not. The dragon stays."  
"It can’t stay here," he bellowed, waving his arms about as if 
swatting at invisible flies. "I have a kingdom to rule. This is not a 
barn or a hatchery, where an imals can roam around at will." Veins on 
his neck bulged and he huffed to catch his breath after expelling so 
much hot air. Farean trumpeted again, adding to the cacophony that 
assaulted my ears.  
"She won’t leave without me," I yelled back, standing on my toes 
and trying to get in his face. It wasn’t effective. I only came up to his 
chest. " Damn  Mother  and her short genes." 
"Then you will have to leave, too." He deflated a little as he said it, 
but the anger still flickered in his eyes.  
I froze in place. " Was he kicking  me out of my home? " Because it was 
raining outside. The thunder and lightning had died down a little, but 
I could still hear the heavy drops pounding out a rhythm on our tiled 
roof. Surely, he wouldn’t send me out in it. If mother had been th ere, 
she would have stood up for me. She wouldn’t let him treat me that 
way. 
"You can’t kick me out," I said, almost a plea. "It’s raining outside. 
Mother will never forgive you."  
"Your mother lost her father to a dragon," he said, looking past 
me to Farea n. "She and I already discussed this on the way home in 
35  Ash Rober ts 
 the carriage. She cannot live with such a beast. But you have a place 
at the hatchery. Authand is expecting your return." He didn’t say 
anything else. He just turned away and left me standing there.  
I blinked to keep the tears from falling, but they came regardless. 
A fat one rolled down my cheek and onto the silk of my sleeve. It 
didn’t matter. My clothes were about to get a whole lot wetter.  

 
 
 
Authand was ex pecting me. What had he said? " She won’t get 
far. "Well, I was about to show him. And my parents. They had 
shamed me into duty, and now they were throwing me out? I would 
show them too.  
I headed for the door and stumbled out into the rainy night, 
Farean ca vorting after me.  
We became thoroughly soaked before I discovered an overhang 
large enough to keep me from getting any wetter. I shivered against 
the buffeting winds while Farean hopped from puddle to puddle in 
the street, flapping her gossamer wings in a feeble attempt to fly. 
Despite myself, I smiled. At least one of us was having fun.  
A covered pedicab approached, forcing Farean to climb onto a 
nearby portico. The drenched Elf carrier gently lowered the handles 
to the ground and opened an umbrella before  opening the door.  
Etlin stepped out and huddled under the oiled cloth as the rain 
poured off onto the servant. Foolishly, I tried to hide; cowering into 
the shadows, but Etlin saw me and dashed over, the servant hurrying 
to keep the cloth in place. Under the protection of the overhang, 
Etlin waved the poor man off, and he promptly ducked into the 
servants’ entrance.  
"What are you doing out here?" Etlin pulled off his jacket and 
wrapped it around me. It was a formal affair with little lining for 
warmth, the  one he’d worn to the hatching, which felt like a lifetime 
ago. I continued to shiver but appreciated the gesture, none the less. 
"You’re a princess, for Farr’s sake. Not some peasant drowning in 
the streets." I was getting tired of people reminding me tha t I was a 
princess. As if that had anything to do with what I’d been stuck with. 
Royal Dragoneer   38 
 Being a princess hadn’t stopped my father tossing me out like 
rubbish. His precious decorum would allow me to catch my death 
mere feet from the hearth where he was undoubtedly  bundled near.  
"My father kicked me out," I told Etlin, expecting sympathy, or 
better yet, outrage.  
He shook his head, looking down as if ashamed to look me in the 
eye. "Go inside, Kalia. The door is right there," he pointed across the 
courtyard. "Go insid e and forget about all this dragon nonsense."  
I stared at the castle’s entrance. A mere twenty feet separated me 
from what my life had been a few short hours ago. I could do it. I 
could walk through that door and forget today had ever happened. I 
could go back to pleasing my parents and Etlin by being the perfect 
girl they expected me to be.  
"You would  leave me alone? " A voice asked, Farean’s snout peeking 
over Etlin’s head, her dragon eyes wide and terrified. It wasn’t the 
question that broke my heart. Or the look. It was the feeling. I could 
feel just what she felt, and it was so much more pain and fear than 
what I’d experienced when my father had shown me the door. I was 
nearly a grown woman, trained to command others and make my 
own choices. Farean was a  child who knew nothing of the world. I 
couldn’t abandon her, even as much as she terrified me.  
"No," I shook my head at Etlin. "I can’t leave Farean."  
"Yes, you can, Kal." He used my pet name, trying to manipulate 
me, to soften me, but it only hardened my  resolve. "You have to. For 
us." 
"What do you mean, ‘for us’? How does any of this affect us? You 
love me, and I love you. Our marriage has been arranged for years."  
"I do love you, Kal. You know that," he glanced away from me, 
frowning. "But this changes everything, don’t you see? Dragoneeers 
live a rough life. They’re constantly at risk and on the move, called to 
wherever the next battle is. That’s what having a dragon means. 
That’s not the kind of life I want."  
"So, you didn’t love me, then?" I said, lif ting my chin and staring 
him down. "You loved the life you would have as the king."  
39  Ash Rober ts 
 "Kal, that’s not fair."  
"Not " fair"?" I yelled at him. "Don’t tell me about ‘not fair.’ I did 
exactly what everyone told me to, playing the dutiful daughter, and 
fiancé, an d princess, and this is what it got me. My parents throw me 
out and you —what? Break up with me?"  
"No," he shook his head, rain dripping from his dark bangs. "My 
parents want me to break it off with you, but I came here to help you 
see that you don’t have t o do this. You can go back to what you 
were. We can go back."  
"But your parents love me —" I stammered, shocked and hurt to 
my core. " Oh no, that’s right. They loved Princess  Kalia,  not Dragoneer  
Kalia. " "Had my entire life been a lie? Did no one really care about me—not for 
what I did, or my title, but for who I was inside? " 
"I like your insides.  "Farean said. She was still looming behind Etlin, 
her wings folded over her head against the rain.  
I gulped. " Not helping. " 
"They do love you," Etlin said, but it wasn’t very convincing. "As 
do I. But if you choose this life, you’re not choosing us." He glanced 
away.  
Up to that moment, I had honestly believed in the power of love 
to overcome anything. " Gods,  I was such a fool." 
"Well, okay then," I said, and Etlin’s  eyes snapped back to mine, 
full of hope. "I guess that’s it." I pushed past him, crossing to stand 
next to Farean. "I suppose I’ll see you around."  
Colonel Authand, Father, Etlin —I’d been told what to do for the 
last time. This was my life. I would play b y my rules, not theirs.  
Etlin stood in stunned silence as the rain plastered his hair to his 
forehead and his clothes to his skin. He stared at me and my dragon, 
processing this surprise —my sudden change from someone who 
patiently and quietly did what what ever was proper and expected, to 
someone who could and would defy everyone around them.  
I almost see the pieces fall into place in his mind, preparing the 
speech he would give his parents, announcing that he’d taken out the 
Royal Dragoneer   40 
 trash like a good soon. The stor y would grow as he told our friends 
of the monster I’d become.  
Etlin opened his mouth and closed it again. I watched him stand 
in the downpour. I wanted to apologize, but part of me insisted I 
hold my ground. I’d say I was sorry, but only if he did first.  
"I can’t believe you’d choose this animal over your own kind," he 
said, gesturing at Farean.  
I pulled off his useless jacket and threw it at him. "If you are an 
example of ‘my kind, I want no part of it."  
"Fine!" he said. Clenching his jaw in fury, he cros sed to the 
servant’s entrance and yanked the door open. "We are leaving," he 
called to his servant. "Now!"  
I got a glimpse of the shocked servants sharing mead over a 
blazing fire. Were they already gossiping about me and my sudden 
descent into madness? I had no doubt I would be the talk of the city 
come morning. The Princess and the dragon. It sounded like a 
morality tale mothers would warn their daughters with.  
Etlin’s servant gulped the last swig from his mug and rushed out,  
trying to get the umbrella over Etlin, but there was no point now. He 
was soaked.  
"Stop it," Etlin commanded. "Just get me home."  
The servant nodded and opened the door to the carriage. Etlin 
placed a foot on the threshold and stopped, turning back to me.  
"Goodbye, Kalia. I don’t imagine we will meet again." He took his 
seat with an audible squish, and the door snapped close behind him. 
The servant took one last wary look at Farean beside me before 
grabbing the poles of the cab and heading for the gates.  
Farean leapt forward, chasing after the cab like a chicken after a 
lizard. I wasn’t sure if it was pure instinct, or if she was trying to 
terrorize the poor man, but the driver ran faster than any I’d ever 
seen pulling a heavy cart. Thankfully, when he turn ed the corner out 
of sight, my dragon lost interest like any toddler would, and came 
wandering back.  
41  Ash Rober ts 
 "My dragon.  "Those were strange words. But I had chosen her. 
Well, first she had chosen me. But I’d come around eventually.  
The rain had mostly stopped, bu t everything was wet and 
dripping. I slid down the wall and sat on the wet cobbled ground. It 
was starting to hit me just how much I’d lost. For all my bravado and 
anger, I didn’t know what to do. I was just a lonely girl abandoned by 
everyone and charged with the task of caring for something —no 
someone —that I knew nothing about.  
How would I feed her? How would I feed myself? And we 
couldn’t sleep in the courtyard like beggars. I slapped my hands 
against the wet brick, sending a wave of hot pain shooting fr om my 
palms up my arms. "Oww."  
Farean turned her attention from the fascinating dripping of a 
water spout. " That" "hurt". 
"I wasn’t trying to hurt you. I’m sorry. I’m just —I don’t know 
what to do. I’m supposed to take care of us both now, and I don’t 
even know how to take care of me."  
"I’ll take care of you". She climbed up the stairs to my side, and 
gently butted her head against mine, rubbing me with her skull. " See? 
Good rubs." 
"That’s  very nice, "I remembered to mind -speak to her. And it was. 
But it still didn’t solve our problem. " You have to understand,  Farean.  I 
don’t know how to be a Dragoneer.  I don’t even know how to live outside  a castle 
without  servants. " "You’d  be better off if we could somehow  break  our bond and 
find you someone  else. " 
She stopped rubbing me, staring at me with her huge birdlike eyes. 
I didn’t know if dragons could cry, but she looked like she was about 
to." You told the sad man and the angry boy you wouldn’t  leave me. You are a 
good Dragoneer  for me. The best for me. It’s why I want you." 
Well, at least someone wanted me, even if it was a dragon.  
I reached out and scratched the protective ridge over her eye, 
somehow knowing she’d love it. "We’ll figure it out," I told her, as 
she rumbled a dragon purr. "Together, we’ll figur e this out."  
Royal Dragoneer   42 
 Conflicting emotions boiled inside me, and I couldn’t tell where 
mine ended and hers began. So, I just stood there petting her as I 
tried to figure out a path forward that wouldn’t be disastrous for 
both of us.  
I caught motion in my peripheral  vision; Farean and I swiveled our 
heads towards it in unison.  
A dark, hooded, figure approached us.  
Instinctively, I moved in front of Farean to protect her, though I 
had no idea how or with what.  
"Stay back," I warned, "or I’ll —" I’ll draw a blank on wha t to 
threaten you with, apparently.  
Small, calloused hands reached up and pulled the hood back just 
enough to reveal the slender, familiar, face of my chamber maid.  
"What are you doing out here?" I demanded. "I thought you were 
some kind of attacker."  
She laughed. "Attacker? At the castle? Princess Kalia, you know 
that to get to this courtyard, you have to pass three different sets of 
guards."  
Farean leaned her long sinuous neck over my shoulder to peer at 
the maid, her snout close enough to sniff at the yo ung girl’s pores. 
To her credit, the maid took only one step back.  
"You remember Farean, I’m sure," I said.  
My maid nodded mutely.  
A sudden gust of wind knocked over a nearby barrel, sending it 
rolling, and Farean was off, chasing after it. She definitely liked to 
chase things.  
With the dragon some distance away, my maid found her voice 
again. Well, it looks like you were able to get cleaned up after all."  
I glared at her and she returned an awkward smile. I wanted to be 
angry with her but the ridiculousnes s of the situation caught up to me 
and I started to laugh.  
"Yeah, I guess I did. Apparently, dragons aren’t allowed in the 
castle."  
43  Ash Rober ts 
 "That’s a dumb rule." She smiled. It faded as the realization set in 
about what that meant for my future. "What will you do now? Will 
you go back to the hatching grounds and live with the other 
Dragoneers?" Was she worried about me, or her position as my 
maid? Father would probably just assign her somewhere else. She was 
good help, and he wouldn’t waste that just because he’d b anished his 
only daughter.  
"I can’t go back there." I shook my head. "Between the way 
Farean chose me and the way I behaved afterward, I don’t dare show 
myself. But where else can I keep a dragon? I have no idea."  
"My father is the royal swineherd," she of fered. "The barns are 
plenty big enough. Farean can stay there until you find somewhere 
more suitable."  
"She wouldn’t stay there without me," I pointed out.  
"Well, dad has an empty room now that I live in the maids’ 
quarters."  
Was she making fun of me, or trying to help? Because I’m not 
sure what would be funnier to a servant than her mistress living as a 
swineherd while she remained in the comfort of the castle. Still, I was 
pretty short on options and didn’t want to offend her. She was the 
only person who  had treated me decently since this whole dragon 
thing had happened.  
"Okay. I’ll figure out a way to repay you and your family. Thank 
you—" "Oh crap. I don’t remember  her name.  " 
"It’s Lunara, your majesty. I have been cleaning your quarters for 
over a yea r now."  
"I know. I’m sorry." Had it been that long? All the maids tended 
to run together in my mind. They all wore the same uniform and all 
sort of looked the same. Still, I should know her name.  
Lunara sighed. "It’s okay. I rather expect it at this point. " 
I started to protest, but she turned and disappeared back into the 
castle.  
"Come here, you," I called to Farean.  
Royal Dragoneer   44 
 She bounded over to me and attempted to push her muzzle into 
my hand. I backed away in fear, automatically, but she just kept 
coming until sh e got what she wanted. After a lifetime of avoiding 
dragons, it was going to take some getting used to being around one 
this much. But Farean was oblivious to my fear and prejudice. Either 
that or she was good at ignoring it.  
"Hey, can that giant nose of y ours smell pigs?" I asked, and she 
raised her snout into the wind, her lips curving up in a dragon grin.  
 
 
 
Farean’s cries, both audible and mental, woke me up before dawn.  
I rubbed the sleep from my eyes and wonder ed what time it was. I 
got up from my bed, if you could call it that. Pushing open a window 
overseeing Farean’s barn, I noticed that the sun wasn’t even up yet.  
The early spring air cut through the thin nightgown Lunara had 
left behind when she’d moved to the castle. I turned to retrieve the 
matching robe, but Farean let out another distressed Ka—li—a, 
stretching my name into three long syllables. I hoped this was some 
sort of phase. The first few weeks after the hatching had been tough 
for me emotionally, But after a week straight of being forced out of 
bed in the middle of the night, two, sometimes three or even four 
times, I knew I wouldn’t last much longer before I snapped.  
Obviously, the decision to leave the hatching grounds had been a 
mistake. But I couldn’t go back now. Too much time had passed. 
They might not even be there anymore. After the hatching was over, 
the Dragoneers went somewhere else to train, and I didn’t know 
where that might be. Father would know, of course, but he’d made 
his opinion o n the matter clear.  
I made my way through the dark house, careful not to wake 
Lunara’s father. Arriving at the stable, I lifted the heavy bar on the 
door and discovered Farean rolled over onto her side with a front 
claw pulling at her skull. Her two rear l egs were trying to join the 
fight too.  
"What are you doing?" I asked, inching closer to my thrashing 
dragon.  
"It hurts, " was all she would answer.  
"Hold still, I need to check your ear."  
Royal Dragoneer   46 
 She kept pulling at it, and I had to yank her front leg away to get i t 
free. In the passing month, Farean’s features had morphed to look 
more like mine. Dark blue scales had become pale and almost 
translucent. Her ears had lengthened and formed into a point. The 
process hadn’t been easy. Every growth spurt caused odd pains and 
scales to bind if she moved wrong. I’d taken to grooming her twice 
per day and still had these late night and early morning wakeups to 
look forward to.  
I found the problem. At the juncture between the ear and skull, 
one of her scales had pulled up and folded against her hide, twisting 
the sensitive part of the ear flesh.  
I gently lifted the scale and let it fall into place. The task complete, 
Farean’s cries immediately ceased. Since I was already up, I took the 
time to check for loose or damaged scales.  "This was a lot easier 
when you were smaller."  
"You couldn’t  ride me when I was smaller ." She had me there. In the 
past week, Farean had taken to the skies. At first, it was only short 
flutters through the air, like one of the chickens when the dragon 
spooked them. From there, she had worked her way up in skill and 
strength to the point where I’d risked a short flight with her two days 
ago. 
We made it mere feet off the ground before I lost my tenuous grip 
on her neck ridge and fell into the pig’s mud. The ron, Lunara’s father 
laughed at me as I spit the foul -smelling earth from my mouth.  
"From now, I’m staying on the ground," I told him. "If Elves were 
meant to fly, we’d have wings."  
In response, he had tossed a bucket of icy water over me.  
"What was that f or?" I sputtered, wiping brown streaks from my 
face. 
"I’m not letting you inside like that." He picked up a second 
bucket and dumped it over my head.  
I stormed off; trying to squeeze the dirty water from the rough 
hemp clothing I’d been reduced to wearing.  
47  Ash Rober ts 
 The next morning, a rawhide seat bound with rope greeted me at 
the breakfast, thrown over my chair. "What’s this?"  
"Something to make sure you don’t fall off next time," Theron 
said. "I’ve seen dragons overhead wearing similar. Theirs are 
undoubtedly bett er made. But this will get you started." He didn’t 
look up from his breakfast, not wanting to draw attention to his 
kindness.  
I spooned some of the meal into a bowl and sat across from him. 
How I missed hot breakfasts of steaming eggs topped with salty 
bacon, tarts, and pastries piled high plate. Instead, the tepid corn 
gruel crunched like sand in my mouth. And yet, this man with little 
money or food, had spent part of his hard work day making me a 
dragon saddle. Not only that, he’d been feeding, housing, a nd 
clothing me for a month, which was more than my father or Etlin 
had been willing to do, two men who supposedly loved me.  
"Theron, thank you," I said, a lump in my throat that wasn’t corn 
gruel. "But I’m not sure I should fly without training. It’s dange rous."  
He put down his spoon. "You are a Dragoneer now, Your 
Majesty. Dragoneers fly."  
I took a bite of thick porridge and swallowed it down, along with 
the lump. I didn’t want to cry in front of Theron. "I’m not a 
Dragoneer. I mean, I don’t feel like one.  More like a swineherd who 
just happens to have a dragon."  
"Fate chooses us, your majesty. I’ve found that fighting it brings 
nothing but unhappiness. And you are no swineherd, I assure you. 
The pigs don’t like you. You smell too much like dragon." He 
returned to his gruel.  
I stirred my spoon around in my bowl, his words no easier to 
digest than the food. He finished his breakfast and got up, putting his 
dish in the wash basin. On his way out to the pigs, he paused at the 
door. "Besides, you’ll have to fly to reach anyone with answers." 
With that, he plunged into the daylight, leaving me to my cold gruel 
and conflicting thoughts.  
Royal Dragoneer   48 
 Unable to stomach any more of either, I grabbed the makeshift 
saddle and found Farean sunning herself in the dirt. I dropped it ne xt 
to her snout, rousing her from her slumber. "You want to try this 
again?"  
It took me a bit to figure out the proper knots, but I soon found 
myself tied to a dragon’s back. I could barely move in the rigging, but 
at least I wouldn’t fall off this time. Farean reared up onto her hind 
legs and shook her back. I lost my grip and dangled backwards in my 
saddle, but I didn’t fall. "Stop that. Are you trying to throw me?"  
"It feels weird.  I don’t like it." She pouted but returned to four legs.  
"Well, get used to it, I’m not getting thrown off again like 
yesterday." She seemed to accept this and lumbered out to the street 
where should could get a better running start. Farean galloped down 
the lane and leapt into the air. With a powerful downbeat of her 
wings, we  were airborne. She kept low at first, in case the rigging 
didn’t hold. After completing a low circle around the farm, she 
pushed us higher and higher.  
Wind whipped at my face and hair, sending it in all directions. 
Brushing it when I landed would be a cho re. But if this was what 
flying felt like, it was a small price to pay.  
Then I swallowed a bug.  
I opened my mouth to whoop as we performed acrobatic loops 
over the city and a fat horsefly went straight inside. I felt the insect 
impact the back of my throat , and I started coughing. But instead of 
dislodging the loathsome creature, the hacking pushed it further 
down until I had no other choice but to swallow. I continued 
coughing and pounded on my chest, hoping to spit it back up.  
"What’s  wrong? " Farean turne d her head my direction, but her body 
followed and she banked hard right, sending me sideways and both 
of us heading head -first towards the ground.  
"Pull —"cough"—up, pull up."  
She returned her attention to the task at hand and we leveled out.  
"Pay attentio n to where you’re going," I scolded her. "You don’t 
need to look at me when we mind speak."  
49  Ash Rober ts 
 The beating of her wings slowed, and we dipped in the sky. I 
started to stay something, but she maintained the new altitude. " I felt 
you coughing  and got worried ". 
I pushed an image of hugging her, safely on the ground, and I 
could feel her body vibrate in the guttural growl she gave when 
content.  
"I just swallowed a bug," I admitted, glad no one could see my 
ears turn red. Not that anyone could have told with all th e windburn 
I was getting. Note to self, get some kind of hat or mask for flying.  
"Lucky.  "Farean flew faster, gaining confidence. " Bugs are tasty." 
I laughed. There hadn’t been much opportunity for mirth in the 
past month and it felt good to let it out. "I ’ll try to save it for you 
next time." The thought of trying to save bugs in my mouth for my 
dragon made me laugh even harder, doubling me over the saddle 
snorting and heaving for breath.  
Farean just shook her head and made another pass over the city.  
When  I finally regained control, the sun was getting low, and I 
directed her to land, skimming just over the chicken pen just to see 
their reaction.  
The rest of the week had been like that as we learned how to fly 
and navigate the air. And fortunately, I hadn’ t eaten any more bugs.  
As beautiful as that day was, it left me with a horrible, aching 
sadness. Farean was made to fly. She was born to be a dragon and 
spend her life doing dragonish things. It came naturally to her. But I 
was holding her back. Not just h er flying with my awkward guesses at 
how to ride, but with all of it. Her cries in the night kept me reeling. I 
never knew what to do and lived in constant fear that something 
would happen to her and it would be my fault. I hadn’t been trained 
as a hatchli ng candidate or a Dragoneer. I’d been raised to follow my 
duty and rule a country. This morning, it had been as simple as 
popping her scale back into place, but as she grew bigger, it would 
only get more complicated to care for her. And as much as I’d grow n 
attached to her —really attached —I couldn’t bear the thought that 
Farean would live as a lesser dragon because of me.  

 
 
 
I was beginning to forget my old life in the castle as a princess. 
Even the fact that I tho ught of it as "my old life" was strange. It 
seemed almost like a dream and flying on Farean had always been my 
reality. But then Lunara brought my old life to the forefront again, 
delivering a letter from Colonel Authand, now at the training grounds 
to the  West.  
 
Princess  Kalia,  
As a result of your alternate lodging arrangements, you missed 
the call to come to Tulta with the others. Raising a dragon 
hatchling for the first month on your own isn’t optimum, but 
given your unusual circumstances, I allowed it. Training a flying 
dragon, however, is another matter. Collect your belongings and 
meet Lewon at the castle for further instructions. You will follow 
him back to training camp tomorrow at first light.  
Colonel Authand  
 
Looking up from the missive, I asked Lu nara, "I don’t suppose 
you want to go, do you?" She shook her head; I couldn’t blame her. 
I’d never seen the training grounds. Until a month ago, I’d barely 
been outside the castle walls. I had just started to get used to my life 
as an exiled princess. The ron made me help on the farm, but he still 
treated me like royalty. Lunara had become something of a friend, 
something I’d never really had before. And now, here was the 
Colonel ordering me around like a servant. He could have at least 
said, "Please, colle ct your belongings." Or, "You can follow him back 
if you want." That would have been polite.  
Royal Dragoneer   52 
 "Tell them I’m not going." I crumpled the letter into a ball and 
shoved it into a pocket. I crossed my arms and waited for Lunara to 
scurry off with the news.  
She didn’t move other than to match my pose. "The Dragoneers 
don’t make requests. You need to go. Lewon is already at the castle 
waiting for you."  
"But your father needs my help here." I glanced at Theron. We 
were in his open -air workshop, and he was busy repa iring a trough 
that had sprung a leak.  
He looked up from his work. "I have to fix most of what you 
‘help’ me with. If you stay, I going to start charging you rent." Having 
said his piece, he returned to the wood.  
I pursed my lips and shook my head. "Well, then. I guess I’m 
going." I thought about what happened the last time I’d been at the 
castle —the confrontation with my father and then Etlin. I did not 
want to go back there. At all. But I felt stronger now somehow —I 
had changed since then —maybe even becau se of their rejection. 
Though I hoped I wouldn’t see either of them, or my mother, I 
wasn’t afraid to anymore. But I certainly wasn’t taking Farean. "Stay 
here," I told her. "I’ll be back tonight, and we will leave to meet other 
dragons tomorrow."  
"Okay ". She rolled over in the dried mud of the pen she had co-
opted  from the pigs.  
I sighed; if we were going anywhere, I’d have to bathe her in the 
pond. I wasn’t about to introduce myself to other Dragoneers on a 
muddy beast.  
"But bring me something  to eat. All this pork is getting  boring ". 
"Don’t be rude," I scolded her, glancing at Theron, who, of 
course, couldn’t hear her. "We’re guests here."  
"Sorry. " Her voice sounded more petulant than remorseful.  
That was something I’d have to work with her. " Oh, gods. When had 
I become  my mother? " 
I turned my attention back to Lunara, who waited with her arms 
still crossed.  
53  Ash Rober ts 
 "Don’t worry too much," she said. "She’s still young. Besides, I 
lived here for fourteen years, and pork for dinner every night does 
get old."  
"She st ill needs to learn some manners. Wait! You could hear our 
conversation?"  
Lunara lowered her head, but otherwise gave no indication of 
hearing me. She turned to leave the workshop, and I followed after 
her. "How did you know what Farean said?"  
"It’s a gift." She kept her voice low, as if sharing a secret that she 
didn’t want others to hear, even though we were the only ones 
around. "I’ve always been able to hear them. I wanted to be a 
Dragoneer, but father insisted I become one of the court maids 
instea d." 
It suddenly struck me that you didn’t have to be a princess to get 
stuck in society’s expectations for you. I grabbed Lunara’s hand, and 
we both looked down, shocked. But I didn’t let go. "I’ll see what I 
can do about getting you to the next hatching. Maybe you can be one 
of my mother’s ladies in waiting and ‘accidently’ bond with a dragon 
like I did."  
She looked up into my face, "I couldn’t impose like that."  
"Come on. I’m going to need a friendly face at this training camp."  
She smiled and dropped my hand. We walked the rest of the way 
to the castle in silence as we dealt with our own thoughts about the 
future.  
Thankfully, Mother and Father were away for the day on 
diplomatic business. The guards at the gate and doors let us pass 
without comment, thoug h I could see them eyeing each other as I 
passed. Was I still the gossip of the castle after all this time? Funny, 
because I barely thought of the people here anymore.  
Lewon lounged in the receiving room with his boot -clad feet 
propped up on an antique ben ch. When we entered, he stood and 
held out his hand. Remembering the embarrassment from last time, I 
shook it. "So, we meet again," I said. "You must be one of the 
Royal Dragoneer   54 
 Colonel’s favorites to get to come retrieve me." I had meant it to be 
funny, or sarcastic, b ut I instead it just came out mean.  
He recoiled at the remark, plastering a fake smile on his face as he 
said, "Most of us don’t get to do whatever we want without 
consequence."  
"I’m sorry. I didn’t mean it like that." I tried to backtrack. "It’s 
just—you witnessed my meltdown at the hatching, and I’m not 
proud of it. It’s something I’d like to forget."  
Lunara arched an eyebrow at me, fidgeting with desire to ask 
about that. I thought the castle gossip vine would have delivered that 
story to her weeks ago, but apparently not. Most likely, Father had 
forbidden those in our party from speaking of it. " Did he know where 
I’d been for the past month?  Did he even care?" 
Lewon just kept smiling, but it seemed a little more genuine now. I 
liked how his smirk brought  out his dimples. He had nice hazel eyes 
and dirty blonde hair. He broke eye contact and looked downward 
towards the floor. At least, I hoped it was the floor. He just as well 
could have been checking out my chest. "You can try to forget," he 
said. "But no ne of the other Dragoneers are likely to let you. I mean, 
I saw it, but"  everyone " heard about it. It’s literally been used in training 
as a precautionary tale."  
My ears reddened. Great. If I did go to this training camp, I would 
be surrounded by peers who  had already judged me.  
"Have you found a place in the city to stay tonight?" I tried to 
change the subject.  
"Not yet, Your Majesty. I wanted to make sure I didn’t miss you 
when you arrived. But I’ll probably stay at the Tooth and Nail. I 
know the owner."  
I’d heard rumors about the place. It was owned by a Nightblood 
and didn’t have the best reputation.  
But I didn’t say that. I was trying to make a good second 
impression. "Please, call me Kalia," I said instead, batting my lashes. I 
was terrible at flirting , and I hadn’t really meant to. But Etlin had left 
me weeks ago, and I’d had no contact with boys my age since. "Have 
55  Ash Rober ts 
 you had anything to eat since you arrived? Flying always makes me so 
hungry."  
"No, I haven’t," he said, giving me a real, genuine grin fin ally. 
"And flying makes everyone hungry. It’s the exhilaration and the 
energy it requires to sync perfectly with your dragon."  
"Exactly!" I smiled back. Now we were getting somewhere, and it 
was so nice to talk to someone who understood what it meant to ri de 
a dragon. I turned to Lunara. "Please, take Lewon to the kitchen and 
get him something to eat. And grab something non -porky for Farean, 
if you can. Mutton perhaps? I need to get a few things from my 
room, and then I’ll be heading back to —where I’ve been  staying." I 
hoped Lunara would forgive me for not wanting to say, "the swine 
farm." "How about if I meet by the gates in the morning," I 
suggested to Lewon. That way he wouldn’t see where I’d been living 
and gain one more story of my spiral into peasantry  to tell the other 
Dragoneers.  
"Um, okay." Lewon said, looking worried. "But if you don’t show 
up, it will be my hide. My instructions were not to let you out of my 
sight once I found you."  
"I will be there with my dragon," I promised.  
"Follow me, sir." Lu nara curtsied to him and pointed in the 
direction of the kitchen. He followed eagerly, and as they crossed the 
threshold, I heard my former maid ask, "So what did the princess do 
at the hatching?"  
I shook my head and moved in the other direction. It felt b oth 
strange and familiar to be in my old home, like I was a ghost visiting 
a past life. Even the servants I passed ignored me, as if I were a 
phantom or a shadow. They probably didn’t want any liability or 
blame for me being there when my parents were away . But they 
couldn’t exactly kick me out either. At the top of the stairs, I 
detoured to the baths. There was no way I could pass up this chance 
to revel in hot water and the scented soaps that my mother always 
bought. I turned on the water, and then went t o my room. It was just 
as I’d left it, complete with the covers thrown back from when I’d 
Royal Dragoneer   56 
 been summoned downstairs to tend to Farean. Mother hadn’t even 
let the maids in? That seemed odd.  
I sat on the bed, trying to decide what I needed to pack. I 
absentmi ndedly ran my hand over the soft fleece of the bedcovers. 
The sensation was a stark contrast from the rough wool I’d been 
sleeping under. " Blanket ", I thought. " Definitely  packing  this blanket ". 
 
 
 
Lunara found me  dozing in the bath. "I finished packing for you," 
she said as she set a towel on the tub’s edge.  
"You didn’t have to do that, I was going to finish."  
She shook her head. "I did if you wanted to get back before dark."  
"Well, thank you. I was in here a litt le longer than I meant to be." 
I held up my pruney fingers.  
"I know." She smiled. "The baths are of my favorite parts of 
working in the castle. I’ll meet you in your room," she said, leaving to 
give me some privacy as I dried off.  
Back in my chamber, she h ad laid out a few clean dresses next to a 
large sack bag. I had never seen it before. When I traveled in the past, 
I’d used expensive and heavy cedar trunks to cart around our 
mountains of clothes. She must have gotten the bag from one of the 
other servant s. She was such a good maid. I’d have to put in a good 
word for her with Father —I stopped in my tracks, marveling at how 
easily and quickly I’d fallen back into the thought patterns of an over -
privileged princess. I wasn’t technically a noble anymore. Luna ra 
wasn’t my servant; she was my friend. And Father couldn’t care less 
about my recommendations. Being at the castle again was playing 
strange tricks on my mind. I needed to get out of there.  
As Lunara helped me lace up my corset, she said, "You are going 
to need pants for riding Farean. And for every day. I don’t think 
Dragoneers wear dresses much."  
"I don’t own any pants," I groaned. "All a princess is supposed to 
wear are dresses. And gods forbid I ever get them dirty."  
Royal Dragoneer   58 
 She started to speak but I held up  a hand, placing it on her 
shoulder. "I appreciate being able to wear your clothes at your 
father’s, but you are three inches taller than me and bigger in the 
chest." I looked down my dress. It felt odd to be wearing one again, 
but at least it fit without stepping on the hem or using a belt to keep 
it from sliding off. "I’m sorry, but your clothes look ridiculous on 
me." 
"Yes, they do." She grinned. Then her face grew serious "Your 
parents just arrived home. Wouldn’t you like to talk to them before 
you leav e?" 
"Um, no!" I snapped, panicking and drawing the thin rope that 
closed the bag, ready to take it and run. "Do they know I’m here?"  
"Not yet," Lunara said. "But they will soon enough."  
"I’m not sure they want to talk to me." I frowned. She grabbed my 
bag and led me down to my parents’ sitting room. As I entered, 
Father looked up from the scroll he was reading. His eyes burned 
with anger but he said nothing. Instead, he brought his gaze back 
down to what he was reading, as if ignoring me would make me cease  
to exist and ruin his perfect family.  
Mother saw me and rushed to her feet. "Oh, Kalia, we’ve missed 
you so much." She wrapped her arms around me in a bear hug that 
threatened to cut off my ability to breathe. I hugged her back, 
lowering my head to her sh oulder. I willed myself not to cry, only 
partially succeeding.  
I looked up briefly to where my father continued ignoring me. 
"One of you has at least," I murmured.  
She pulled back slightly and studied my face. "What was that?"  
"Nothing," I lied. I didn’t s ee the point in starting an argument. "I 
just miss you so much."  
"Then come home, silly." She rocked us side to side as she spoke, 
providing a cadence to the singsong quality of her statement.  
"Father won’t let me." Why did my mouth refuse to cooperate on 
Mission: Don’t Start an Argument?  
59  Ash Rober ts 
 "Of course, he will." She turned us to the side and craned her head 
towards Father’s chair. "Won’t you, dear?" In answer, he shook the 
slack from the scroll and continued reading. She seemed to take this 
as an affirmation.  "All you have to do is get rid of that pesky dragon 
and everything will go back to normal."  
I pulled away from her. "I’m trying to. But I resent the idea that I 
am only worth your love if I’m capable of getting rid something. 
Something that only happened because FATHER made me go 
somewhere I didn’t want to. This is really his fault."  
From behind the parchment, my father growled. I took a step 
back from Mother, crossing my arms over my chest. "Sometimes 
things happen and we have to deal with them. You taugh t me that 
lesson. Why does it apply to me and not to you?"  
"Don’t you take that tone of voice with me, young lady." Her eyes 
narrowed. She leaned forward with her hands on her hips. "I will not 
be sassed by my daughter."  
My arms exploded into the air. "Wel l, it’s a good thing that Farean 
keeps me from being your daughter anymore." I stomped to the door 
and slammed it closed in the most unladylike fashion I could muster. 
I couldn’t believe they were being this way. Well, if they didn’t want 
me, I could live without all of their stupid rules anyway.  
Lunara stood in the hallway with my pack. She studied her shoes 
intently. "I -" 
"Hold that thought." I held a finger up. I marched back to the 
door and pushed it open. Mother hadn’t moved since my outburst 
and Father looked up from the scroll again. "And another thing. You 
should promote Lunara. She’s a great maid. Plus, she took care  of me 
when you wouldn’t." I started pulling the door back closed but 
paused. "Not that you care about that." I slammed the door for the 
second time in as many minutes.  
Lunara’s ears were completely red. "You shouldn’t have done that, 
your majesty."  
I shoo k my head. "It’s the least I could do for all you’ve done for 
me." I looked down. "I just hope I didn’t get you fired instead."  
Royal Dragoneer   60 
 "I really do appreciate everything you and your father have done 
for me, and I promise to do what I can to get you an in with th e 
dragons."  
I didn’t think I was going to get any more conversation from her, 
so I changed the subject. "Alright, let me take my bag so you can get 
back to work, I’m sure you’re behind from having to come fetch 
me." 
She gripped the strap and then let go ov er it. She slid it off her 
shoulder and handed the pack to me. The weight surprised me, and I 
almost dropped it. I recovered and slid it onto my back. My knees 
protested the addition but I locked them into place. Lunara carried it 
so effortlessly; I was em barrassed that I was so weak compared to 
her. 
She smiled and gave me a warm hug, whispering "Thank you," in 
my ear. I wasn’t sure what for, though. It was she who had helped 
me. 
I stood in the corridor for a moment, processing the realization 
that I was le aving my home for good. This time I wasn’t being 
thrown out. I was choosing to leave. Suddenly, the doorknob across 
the hall rattled, and I barreled toward the back servants’ stairs, taking 
them two at a time, my gear on my back threatening to tumble over 
me. 
At the bottom, I glanced over my shoulder to check if I’d been 
followed. And I walked right into Lewon.  
"Oomph." Off balance and propelled by the heavy carpet bag, I 
didn’t just walk into him; we collided with a solid smack. My body 
literally plastered  itself against his, and then seemed to cling there for 
a moment before it decided to bounce off, hurling me backwards. 
Instinctively, he put his arms out and around me to catch me. Which 
worked. It worked very well indeed. I was captured by muscled 
biceps  and pinned against a well -defined chest. Unlike Etlin, Lewon 
was obviously accustomed to hard labor. I caught my breath, looking 
up at his stubbled chin. His silk shirt fell slightly open at the neck 
61  Ash Rober ts 
 right where my face was, and he smelled —he smelled like  oiled 
leather and the earthy scent of dragons.  
"I—my parents —I have to get out of here," I stammered.  
Slowly and almost reluctantly, he removed his arms from around 
me, a strange look on his face. "You’ve had a bath. And you have a 
dress on that actually fits." This time I was sure he was checking out 
my chest. "You clean up nice." He smiled, his dimples winking at me. 
"I almost didn’t recognize you."  
"Yeah, well, I am a princess," I said. "We’re raised to clean up 
nice."  
"Of course, Your Majesty," he said , his back gone stiff and his 
smile gone.  
"Oh, for Farr’s sake. Will you knock it off? I have a dragon just 
like you, remember? Everybody has made it obvious that I can’t be 
nobility and a Dragoneer. This is my new life now. I’m not above 
anybody else."  
"Fair enough," he said. "I’ll try to remember that." He didn’t relax.  
"Sorry for being curt. You surprised me. Guests usually aren’t 
allowed in this part of the castle."  
"I was exploring the castle when I heard shouting."  
I grimaced. Somebody overhearing fam ily business ranked as one 
of the few things could possibly get my parents madder than they 
already were "No, it’s fine. I was just heading back to Farean."  
"I’ll walk with you as into town," Lewon said. "If your mystery lair 
lies in the same direction, th at is." " My mystery  lair?" Oh, I really 
couldn’t let him know it was a pig farm now.  
"They are in the same direction," I said, feeling glad they were. 
"But what about your dragon?"  
"Calen will find me when he’s ready," Lewon laughed. "He got a 
whiff of a f emale dragon in heat just outside the city limits. He 
couldn’t get back there fast enough after he dropped me at the 
castle."  
I did not know how to respond to that. Farean was my 
companion, my dragon, but I hadn’t even thought about her mating 
Royal Dragoneer   62 
 someday. And  how did that work when you had a telepathic and 
emotional link with the creature mating? Or in reverse? What about 
me when I’d been pressed up against Lewon. Had Farean felt that? 
"Oh my god, this is not good." 
"So, can I accompany you?" Lewon asked,  a glint in his eyes as 
they stared into mine.  
"Yes, of course, it’s a date." I clapped my hands over my mouth, 
realizing what I’d just said. I pretended to wipe my mouth and let my 
hands fall back to my side. "Not a date. Just an evening stroll."  
I was bl ushing. I could feel the heat on my face. I could feel the 
heat other places as well. What had gotten into me?  
"You’re cute when you blush," Lewon said, reaching out to brush 
a tendril of my hair away from my pink cheek.  
My eyes grew wide. I couldn’t breat he or move a muscle. Lewon’s 
look was difficult to read. His body arched over mine, as if trying to 
protect me from the rest of the world. His eyes glinted with 
something wild yet determined, and his mouth curved into a sexy but 
still boyish smile. For a m oment, I couldn’t tell if he was happy or 
frustrated with me. I took comfort in thinking maybe he was just as 
confused as I was.  
I exhaled slowly, and I counted backwards, using all the tricks my 
etiquette tutor had taught me for calming down in a tense si tuation.  
It must have worked, because he blinked and moved a step back 
from me.  
"Shall we go?" I asked, gesturing towards the servants’ back exit.  
"Of course. Here, let me take that." He reached for my bag, but I 
pulled away.  
"I can do it. I want to learn to carry my own weight."  
"Good," he said, giving me a friendly smile. "Because as a 
Dragoneer, sometimes you have to carry your weight and your 
dragon’s. Not literally, of course. That would crush you. But you 
know what I mean."  
63  Ash Rober ts 
 And I really did. Caring fo r Farean was a burden, hard labor, and a 
challenge all rolled into one —but I was determined to do what was 
best for her. No matter what.  

 
 
 
During our evening stroll, Lewon told me about his life growing 
up on the outer edge of Darneta, almost to the back woods of Fawla. 
I just listened. I couldn’t really compare my life to his. What would I 
say? That I had lived a sheltered life in a castle and caught Farean’s 
attention by acting like a brat? He already knew that.  
The road to the Tooth led to the outskirts of town, almost to the 
farmland. My pig farm home was just a bit beyond it.  
"So, what are you doing living all the way out here?" Lewon asked. 
"Surely your father could provide better facilities for his daughter a nd 
her dragon."  
"My father wants nothing to do with me or my dragon," I said. 
"He kicked me out of the castle onto the street because I wouldn’t 
give her up."  
Lewon stopped in his tracks. "How dare he?"  
"He’s the King and a very stubborn man. That’s how. P lease, let’s 
just drop it. I really don’t want to talk about that."  
"To throw you and your dragon on the street —it’s unthinkable." 
Lewon said, not dropping it at all. "Dragons are the most precious 
resource in all of Darneta. Nay, in the entire world. Colo nel Authand 
will hear about this."  
It was getting dark, just that time before the sun completely sets 
when everything looks shadowy and weird. The brush rustled in the 
woods at the side of the road, but there was no wind. I figured it was 
probably squirrel s and just kept going. A branch snapped. A large 
one. Too big to be broken by a small animal. I stopped.  
Royal Dragoneer   66 
 Lewon took a few more steps before realizing I wasn’t moving 
and halted as well. "What’s wrong?"  
"There’s something in the woods. I think it’s followin g us.’  
"It’s probably just an ani —" A Goblin leapt from a nearby tree, 
pinning me to the ground. I shrieked and clawed at him, but he was 
heavy, his maw coming towards my face as if to take a bite. I heard a 
thump and metal sliding against metal. The Gobli n’s weight shifted, 
and he slumped next to me.  
Lewon stood over me with a dagger in his left hand, dripping 
blood. "Are you okay?"  
I nodded, fighting to get control of my breathing, which was 
coming in terrified gasps. Still, I managed to sit up.  
He seemed  to take my affirmation at face value and stepped to the 
edge of the woods to wipe his dagger in the grass before sliding it 
back in a hidden sheath in his right sleeve.  
My heart pounded, and I was still hyperventilating. As I tried to 
calm down, I realize d how ridiculous I must seem to him. I was still 
prone on the ground freaking out, while he casually cleaned his 
weapon after killing in a single motion. If I joined the Dragoneers, 
would it affect me like that? Would I kill that easily? Would it become 
my first instinct?  
Lewon held out his hand and I took it. He pulled me up and set 
me back on me feet, his arms briefly circling around my waist. Then, 
he turned his attention to the dead Goblin.  
The danger had passed, and I was on my feet, but my heart beat 
faster and faster. Why couldn’t I catch my breath? I didn’t normally 
react to danger this way. What was wrong with me? Was I having an 
attack of the heart, like the one that killed my grandmother before I 
was born?  
Lewon looked up from where he crouched, r ifling through the 
dead Goblin’s belongings.  
I staggered and fell to my knees. I could hear Farean screaming in 
my head, but that was ridiculous. We hadn’t even made it to the inn 
yet, and the farm was two miles beyond that.  
67  Ash Rober ts 
 Lewon rushed to my side, grabbi ng my shoulders and pulling me 
up. "You need to calm down."  
"I—I can’t." The world spun around me. How could I be moving 
if he was holding me upright?  
"No, you need to calm down. Tell Farean you are okay. She is 
freaking out and overloading your system wit h adrenaline. If both of 
you don’t pull it together, your heart will stop."  
Nothing like telling me that I was about to die to get me settled. "I 
can’t," I panted. "She’s not here."  
"Do it," he shouted, shaking me roughly.  
The pounding continued. This was it; my heart was going to 
explode in my chest.  
If I’d been in a better state of mind, I would have seen it coming. 
Maybe I could have even blocked it. But Lewon slapped me hard 
enough to see stars. "Tell her" he screamed.  
"Farean," I said aloud and in my m ind too. "I’m okay. We’re 
okay."  
Immediately, my heart slowed. The edge of my panic blunted, and 
my breathing slowed. I became aware of the fact that I was sitting on 
the ground in my dress, with Lewon’s arms wrapped around me and 
a dead Goblin laid out ne xt to me. For some reason, that fact didn’t 
seem to bother me as much as it had a minute ago. I didn’t want to 
pull away from Lewon’s embrace. It felt so good. But I wanted him 
to know I was okay. "I’m sorry," I said. "I don’t know what 
happened. I’ve neve r been attacked before, but I didn’t think I would 
freak out like that."  
"It wasn’t you." He looked down into my face, his mouth very 
close to mine. "It was your bond with Farean. She felt the attack and 
got scared. Don’t be surprised if she shows up any m inute. Actually, 
we should both have our dragons with us." His eyes looked off in the 
distance for a moment, his lips moving slightly as he had a 
conversation I couldn’t hear. Did I move my lips like that when I 
mind -spoke with Farean?  
Royal Dragoneer   68 
 "How can you talk to  your dragon from so far?" I asked, pulling 
out of his arms. "And Farean isn’t coming; she doesn’t know where 
we are."  
I’m coming,  Kalia.  
Well, that made me feel silly. And it quickly morphed into anger. 
"Will you tell me what’s going on?" I pushed against  Lewon’s chest.  
We untangled from each other and both stood up.  
"You really don’t know anything about dragons, do you?" He 
asked.  
"That’s not fair," I said. "Everything I know, I’ve had to teach 
myself. Or Farean has taught me." I glared at him, but he was  right. 
This time, what I didn’t know had almost killed me. Next time, it 
might harm or kill Farean. That thought was unbearable. It would be 
like rending myself in two if she died. Where was she? What if she 
got netted by Goblins on the way to me? There c ould be more in the 
woods.  
Then, I heard the "fwap" of beating dragon wings and saw Farean 
clear the tree line. She landed by the dead Goblin and sliced into the 
body with her talons, stabbing with a fury I’d not seen in her before. 
I reached out to her. " It’s dead. It can’t hurt us anymore. " She took one 
more jab at the skull, with enough force to crack it open, before 
turning her attention to me.  
"Are you okay?  What  happened?  I felt you and got scared.  I’ll kill anyone  
that hurts you. Are you okay? " 
The questions kept coming until I placed my arms around her 
neck, sending her every reassuring thought I could muster. "I’m fine. 
It was over before it began, thanks to Lewon."  
Farean swiveled her head, noticing the man next to me for the 
first time. " He smells like dragon.  Where  is his dragon? " 
I started to explain where Calen was when the beat of wings 
announced his arrival.  
Lewon’s green landed a few feet from us, and the two dragons 
squared off, appraising each other. I felt my panic returning. A green 
69  Ash Rober ts 
 just like this had killed my grandfather in front of my eyes. And now 
it looked like he wanted to kill Farean.  
Farean hissed, feeding off my fear. She extended her neck and 
arched her wings, trying to make herself appear as large as possible. 
The older dragon still had the size advantage and batted her with the 
bony edge of his wing.  
I felt the hit as if it were to my own face. It didn’t particularly hurt, 
more like a scolding than an attack. Farean snorted. " Don’t  patronize  
me. If you are going to attack,  do so properly ". 
"No, wait!" I ran to intercept them, throwing myself between the 
two creatures. Farean’s nose pushed against my back. I reached 
behind me to shove her away. Of course, my measly human efforts 
had no effect on a beast so much larger than myself . "What are you 
doing? He’s twice your size and trained. You wouldn’t stand a 
chance."  
"I could take him". She huffed.  
Calen’s eyes bored into me.  
Farean wrapped a claw around me and drew me back from the 
green dragon. " He’s trying to decide  whether  you’re  worth the trouble  to kill so 
he can get to me." 
Calen suddenly tilted his head towards Lewon and dropped his 
shoulders. He glowered at us, but didn’t advance otherwise.  
"No one is attacking anyone," Lewon said, taking a step towards 
us. He looked at his d ragon. "They are our allies."  
Lewon turned towards Farean and me, his hands out in a gesture 
of peace. "We all have a lot of residual tension right now from the 
attack. It’s messing with our emotions. Let’s all calm down. Farean, I 
know you can’t back down  without losing face. Neither can Calen. 
So, on the count of three, everyone will back down together. Nobody 
loses." He swiveled his head between my dragon and his. He raised 
his hands up above his shoulders. "Okay? One. Two. Three. Now." 
He dropped his ha nds and the two beasts returned to their normal 
postures.  
Royal Dragoneer   70 
 "How did you do that? Farean wouldn’t listen to me." " I couldn’t  
control  her. I had always  been able to control  her before,  but not this time". She 
wasn’t a baby anymore. She was developing a mind of her own.  
He shrugged. "Dragons are pack animals, always sorting each 
other for dominance. When you put a bunch of them together, you 
have to learn how to defuse situations before they turn into attacks. 
But don’t worry. You’ll learn it quick enough."  
My eyes settled on the body in the path. He followed my gaze. 
"These woods aren’t safe anymore. You’ll need something to defend 
yourself with."  
Lewon crouched over the Goblin and searched through its 
clothing. He found a crooked dagger in a thigh sheath and pulled 
them both off. "It’s Goblin steel, worthless in most situations, but it’s 
better than nothing. At the training grounds, we can get you outfitted 
with quality gear."  
I examined the blade and sheath. I looked at my waist, trying to 
figure out a way to  attach it. I certainly wasn’t going to reach inside 
my skirt for a weapon.  
Lewon realized my dilemma and removed the belt from the 
Goblin’s body. I shrank back from the grimy leather. He stared at 
me, but I wouldn’t touch it.  
"Fine," he said and removed h is own belt. He strung the sheath 
through the braided cords and handed it to me, then wrapped the 
Goblin belt around his own waist. I tied the belt over my skirts as he 
nodded. "Keep that handy. Even when you get home. You never 
know when another greyskin will show up.  
I pursed my lips at the slur. I knew what it meant, but nobody had 
ever been crude enough to use in in front of me.  
If Lewon saw my discomfort at his words, he didn’t show it. 
Instead, he turned to his dragon. "Get rid of the body." The green  
picked up what was left of the Goblin after Farean’s evisceration and 
went airborne. With a flick of his wrist, the dragon tossed it into the 
woods for scavengers to take care of and landed, this time well clear 
of Farean.  
71  Ash Rober ts 
 Lewon looked at the sun. "Since the dragons are here, we might as 
well fly. It will be safer."  
I looked at Farean’s back. "I don’t have my harness with me."  
He chewed on his lower lip. "Okay, we’ll walk. But I’m not leaving 
your side until you are safely home. I was charged to bring you back 
to Tulta and that’s what I intend to do. Besides, I can’t afford to lose 
someone as important as you."  
I looked down, unable to meet his eye. He meant because I was a 
princess, of course. That had to be. He couldn’t mean that I was 
important to him pe rsonally, could he?  
After a long dusty, mostly silent walk, with our dragons flying 
overhead to scan the woods around us, we were finally at Theron’s. 
Lewon walked in with me and met Theron, them shaking hands like 
old friends. Lewon explained about the at tack on the road, and 
Theron offered him and Calen a place in one of the barns for the 
night. After we’d all had some food and drink, Lewon headed for the 
door.  
I followed him out, to make sure Farean was settled, but then I 
could hear her snoring from her  stable. I was surprised when Lewon 
paused on the porch and took my hands in his. "You’ve certainly 
made my day interesting. I’m going to enjoy flying with you 
tomorrow." He smiled, looking down at me.  
I leaned forward, willing him to close the gap between  us. He saw 
the motion and pulled back. "Get some sleep. We’ll leave just after 
dawn." He drew my hand to his mouth and kissed it, confusing me 
even more, before loping into the dark towards the barn.  
I stood for a few moments, under the moonlight, only to  see 
Farean lumbering towards me.  
"I got a quick nap. "She said, coming up and rubbing my face with 
her muzzle" . Now,  I will stand watch". 
"Don’t be silly. You need more sleep. You have the hard part 
tomorrow."  
"Fine". She coiled her body in front of the d oor, resting her head 
on her front legs. " I will sleep here then. Nothing  will get past me". 
Royal Dragoneer   72 
 I smiled and patted her head. "Goodnight." I closed the door 
behind me and leaned against it, trying to keep my thoughts still until 
I heard her snoring again.  
There it was —halfway between a growl and a purr —the most 
endearing sound I’d ever heard.  
I pressed my back against the hard door, fighting tears. This day 
had reminded me of the other side of having a dragon —the 
dangerous and wild side that had killed my gran dfather. That had 
been easy to forget while Farean was smaller and cuter, and we lived 
on a pig farm.  
I had often wondered why my grandfather had run out to 
confront a huge beast wielding only a sword. I had never asked my 
mother or father. I knew, even as  a small child, it was not a question 
I was allowed to voice. But, in my own mind, I’d often thought it had 
been foolish of him. Everyone knew a man couldn’t defeat a dragon. 
Only a dragon could match a dragon.  
And today, my little dragon had faced off aga inst a full -grown 
green, and all that terror had come rushing back. That was when I 
realized I was being as foolish as my grandpa. I had vastly 
overestimated my ability to handle a dragon.  
Lewon’s words came rushing back to me —You really don’t know 
anythin g about dragons,  do you?"  " 
He was right. I hadn’t known my fear would scare Farean so 
much, or that her response could actually kill me. I hadn’t known I 
could call her from far away, or that she could hone in on my 
location. And I had absolutely no idea how dragons related to other 
dragons, or how Dragoneers related to one another. Which had all 
lead me to make a decision on our silent march home, though I had 
fought not to think of it until now. My heart ached, but I also knew it 
was the right thing to d o for Farean. Because I loved her.  
I ran my hand over the rough grain of the door separating us and 
swallowed my sobs.  
I wouldn’t be getting much in the way of sleep tonight.  
 
 
 
They’re  here. Kalia,  wake up. They’re  here"." 
I opened my eyes, squinting into the rising sun streaming through 
my window. A cool breeze carried the scent of the caked mud and 
excrement from the stable. I wasn’t going to miss that part of my 
morning wakeup routine. Rubbing my eyes, I searched  for the clothes 
I’d dropped on the floor the night before. My hair was a mess, but it 
would get much worse than that flying, so instead of fixing it, I 
stumbled out to the kitchen. Lewon sat at the table chatting with 
Theron. I ignored them and went for t he pot of brewed stimleaf. I 
chugged the beverage and let out the most unladylike belch. For 
dignity’s sake, they pretended not to hear me.  
Lewon stood. "Are you ready to go?"  
"Almost."  I hugged Theron. "Thank you for everything. I couldn’t 
have made it through this month without you."  
He wrapped his arms around me. "You would have been fine. 
You’re more resilient than you think."  
I sniffed, fighting to keep the tears from falling. "Once  I’m on 
better terms with my father, I’ll —" 
"I already have everything I could want from your father. Just 
don’t be a stranger. Visit me when you’re at the capital."  
I nodded, backing away from him. "I will."  
Outside, Farean paced in front of the house, tu rning at every 
sound coming from the woods. " Can we go now? Goblins  could attack  any 
moment ". 
I laughed.  
Royal Dragoneer   74 
 Lewon leaned in and whispered, "Don’t tell her we’ll be traveling 
closer to the Goblin encampments." The laugh died on my lips. I 
didn’t like the idea of heading towards danger, but I at least I’d be 
surrounded by dozens of dragons and trained Dragoneers.  
I lashed my bag to Farean’s forepaw and assembled my makeshift 
harness. Lewon arched an eyebrow at it but said nothing. Calen 
snorted and shook his hea d. I ignored them. If they wanted me to 
have a proper harness, they should have brought one. Tightening the 
last knot securing me to Farean’s back, I leaned in close. " Let’s show 
them what we can do". 
Without warning, she reared and leapt into the sky, bea ting her 
wings as we flew higher and higher. Looking back, I saw Lewon 
finish fastening his harness and take off after us. Aided by Calen’s 
larger size, they caught up quickly. Farean flapped harder, taking us 
closer to the clouds. Calen banked and then ro se above us. He 
coasted overhead, pushing us lower. "Save your energy," Lewon 
shouted. "We have a lot of flying to do today."  
I stuck out my tongue, but we descended to a more comfortable 
altitude. We flew in silence with Lewon and his dragon a few feet to  
our left. Remembering the bug incident from the week before, I 
fished out my scarf from a pocket on my gingham dress and wrapped 
it around my face. The wind still stung my eyes and made them 
water. I was about to add goggles to my mental list of things I 
needed, and then remembered I wouldn’t be needing them.  
"What  are Googles? " Farean asked. " Do I need them? " 
"Not Googles.  Goggles.  "I corrected her, thankful for the laugh to 
cover my sudden sadness."  And no, you don’t need them. That’s  what your 
second  eyelids are for." 
We fell behind the other dragon. At first, it was barely noticeable, 
but as the day progressed, Lewon got further and further ahead of us, 
until I could barely see the spade -shaped flutter of Calen’s tail.  
Lewon noticed this as well, and th ey began to descend, waving us 
down as they went.  
75  Ash Rober ts 
 Farean landed next to them in a clearing by a stream. After 
extracting myself from the harness, she lumbered over and started 
lapping up water.  
"We will rest for an hour and then start again." Lewon pulled a 
drinking flask out of his coat and filled it upstream from the dragons. 
"We made good time. We should only need to stop three or four 
more times before we make it to the training grounds." He pulled 
some strips of jerky out of another pocket and offered me one.  
Taking it, I glanced at our companions as the green found a spot 
free of shadows and spread out in it, soaking up the sun like a giant 
cat. "What about them?" I held up my jerky.  
Lewon shook his head. "If they eat, they’ll get tired and not fly as 
well. Under extreme conditions, a dragon can go three days without 
any food and still fly." He looked in my eyes, and then away, a little 
smile on his face.  
I nodded, unsure what to say. I felt like I was being flirted with, 
but it was awkward. Lewon didn’ t seem awed by my status, but then I 
had no idea what my status was anymore. How did Dragoneers flirt? 
I’d never really been courted or wooed. I’d been matched with Etlin 
when I was still a toddler. Both of us always assumed we’d be 
together, and it had be en comfortable and settled. And boring. How 
many girlfriends had Lewon had? Maybe he had one now. The 
thought was disturbing. How could I find out? I couldn’t just ask.  
Farean found her own sunny spot and rolled onto her side, 
exposing her belly to the ray s. I climbed up to her forepaw and rested 
against her. Together we dozed in the light as if we hadn’t a care in 
the world. Too soon, Lewon motioned for us to get ready. Up in the 
sky, we continued east, the wind reducing conversation to only the 
most neces sary orders.  
"What  do you think of Lewon? " I asked Farean.  
"I don’t trust him or his big green dragon. " "The man smells  off." Her tail 
flicked against the wind. Calen turned his head towards us briefly, but 
then returned his attention to flying. Had he hea rd that?  
Royal Dragoneer   76 
 "Really? " I asked her. " I thought  he smelled  good." "Besides,  he’s been nicer 
to me than anyone  outside  of Theron’s  family  since you hatched. " 
She swooped to catch a swallow too slow to avoid us. We flew 
with the poor creature in her talons for a few seconds before she 
released it. " I’m just practicing ". I felt her annoyance through our bond. 
"And if you don’t want my opinion,  don’t ask for it". 
"That was a good catch", I admitted. But I’d hurt her feelings and 
now she wanted to pretend I wasn’t ti ed to her back hundreds of feet 
in the air.  
She still wasn’t speaking to me the next time we landed. I 
unhooked myself from the harness and we headed in opposite 
directions.  
"What’s wrong?" Lewon fell in lockstep with me as we headed 
away from the river we  were still following.  
"Just a difference of opinion." I wasn’t about to tell him that we 
had argued about him. "But now she’s angry and not speaking to 
me." 
He laughed. "There isn’t a creature in the world as stubborn as a 
dragon. Give her time, she’ll co me around. But while we’re on the 
ground and she won’t be distracting you, I could teach you some 
woodcraft. That is unless you already know it."  
"No, it never came up while my mother was making sure I knew 
how to walk around with a board on my head." I mi med holding a 
flat object above me while keeping my head perfectly still, pacing a 
few steps. He laughed, and I pretended to drop my board and fell to 
the leafy ground after it. I grinned from below him and he plopped 
down beside me. "Apparently, it’s a vi tal skill in the court."  
I tried to pay attention as he instructed me in the best way to start 
a fire, but mostly I daydreamed about whether I could convince my 
parents to enter into talks with his. Or, well, whoever his guardian 
was. Hopefully, it was som ebody at least moderately important that 
could offer something to the King in return for my hand. It was silly 
girl stuff. I knew that. But I was a still a girl.  
77  Ash Rober ts 
 I decided that the Authand must be his guardian. That would be 
perfect. As leader of the Drago neers, Authand could just about name 
his terms. I’d seen him threaten to quit the service of the Elves if 
Father didn’t supply more food for the dragons. I had to be worth 
more than some food. Authand would have my father in a corner 
and my marriage to Lew on would be secured.  
I was so caught up in my ruminations that I didn’t hear him call 
my name. He clapped his hands next to my ear, breaking me free of 
my reverie. "Have you been paying attention at all?" He stood and 
held out a hand.  
"Huh?" I shook my hea d to clear the cobwebs. "Of course. I just 
got a little distracted towards the end." I took the hand, expecting 
him to pull me up, but he just stood there with his arm extended. 
Well, Father would at least insist that Lewon take lessons with my 
grace tutor . I pulled myself up, using his otherwise useless arm as 
support.  
He turned his back on me, heading to the waiting dragons. "Get in 
your harness. We should have left a while ago."  
I raced to catch up on him, taking care to avoid the exposed tree 
roots that  threatened to trip me on the ill -defined path. The gurgling 
water of the nearby stream reminded me that I hadn’t been able to 
relieve myself for hours. "How long till we get there?"  
"Still half a day’s flight. Why?"  
I couldn’t bring myself to say it. I su bconsciously looked down at 
my lap. He caught the motion and smirked. "You’ll have to go in the 
woods."  
"What? No, I can’t." My hands dropped to cover myself, although 
I was no more exposed than I had been a minute ago.  
"Suit yourself," he shrugged, leavin g me wondering why he was 
suddenly so rude. If that wasn’t bad enough, he and Calen took off, 
leaving me to finish tying myself in so Farean and I had to try to 
catch up. At our next landing, I was so annoyed, I stayed tied to 
Farean’s back the entire hour  on the ground.  
Royal Dragoneer   78 
 We continued east, as the sun sank towards the horizon, turning 
the sky a mixture of reds and oranges. Behind us, the sky dipped into 
violet and the dragon moon glowed silver as it began its nightly chase 
of the ball of fire. The sun disapp eared below the horizon and dots 
of fire became visible on the ground below, signaling inhabitants who 
eschewed the safety of greater numbers in towns and villages. Ahead 
of us, a ring of fires marked our destination, as the watch lit the night 
against the  Goblins that hunted here.  
We landed in a field where Colonel Authand was waiting. He held 
out his good hand to steady me as I climbed off Farean. "Welcome, 
Princess Kalia." He bowed, still clutching my hand.  
"No time. Bathroom." I ran off in a random dire ction, hoping one 
would be clearly labelled. Near the wall to my left, a lonely wooden 
stall bore the glyph for privacy. I gulped, as I headed towards it. A pit 
toilet was little better than going in the woods, but I was out of time 
and options.  
When came back out, the Colonel and Lewon were nowhere to be 
seen and neither were the dragons. " Farean?  "I called, beginning to 
panic.  
"Finally,  not pork"! She squealed in my head. Well, at least she was 
being taken care of. I wasn’t sure where I was supposed to go, but a 
red-haired girl approached me, holding out a hand. I was getting used 
to the manners of commoners and shook it. "I’m Kalia," I added.  
"I know," she said. "I’m Esgeril. Colonel Authand asked me to 
show you to the girls’ dorm. You’re to report to h im in the morning."  
She started walking and I followed, trying to examine the buildings 
in the dim light. The complex was huge, putting the castle to shame, 
but most of the space was empty, segregated into large grassy lots like 
the one we were crossing. L ow stone buildings dotted the landscape 
and the lake I’d spied from the air seemed to make up the Western 
border.  
We approached a complex made up of stables for the dragons. 
The scent of straw and sweat permeated the building, which 
alternated between covered and open -air pavilions. To either side sat 
79  Ash Rober ts 
 two story buildings with rows of empty windows. Esgeril led me to 
the closest one. "All of the female Dragoneers stay here," she 
explained. "The guys are on the other side. And there’s a watch tower 
over the stables," she pointed to a spindle in the center of the 
compound, "to make sure we don’t mix. Violators get latrine  duty."  
I made a face. "At least that was one thing I won’t have to worry 
about. Princesses don’t sneak in the middle of the night."  
She chuckled as she led me up to an empty room. "This one is 
yours. I’m down the hall on the right." She pointed to a door by the 
stairs. She promised to lead me to the Colonel’s office in the morning 
and, with that, I was alone for the first time since I’d stormed out of 
the hatching grounds a lifetime ago. I found my belongings sitting on 
a small table by a cot. It was bare and uncomfortable compared to 
my quarters in the castle, but a month of sleeping in Lunara’s bed 
made it more than tolerable.  

 
 
 
"This place is so fun. There  are so many dragons  here". Farean’s voice 
woke me up, insanely early, as usual. My window showed a view of 
inky purple over the lake, only the brightest morning stars still visible.  
"I knew you would  like it. But let me sleep. I don’t need to be up until dawn". 
I rolled over and pulled my head under the straw  stuffed pillow. I 
could feel her excitement and even caught the odd scent as she 
introduced herself to the rousing dragons. I pushed the sensations 
away and focused on returning to sleep, but a knock ended that futile 
hope. Still dressed in yesterday’s cl othes, I opened the door to find 
Esgeril waiting for me, her long braided hair still damp. With 
squinted eyes, I told her, "I thought you said morning. This is still 
night."  
She laughed. "We count dawn by the tower. The sun hit it half an 
hour ago."  
"Fine,  I’ll get ready." I grunted and shut the door in her face. I 
spied a bowl of water that had been set out for me the night before 
and did my best to wash the travel grime from my face and hands. I 
had no way of cleaning my hair, so I tied it up into a bun b efore 
changing into fresh clothes. Opening the door, I found Esgeril 
waiting in the same spot I’d left her. Girls in various stages of getting 
dressed chatted in the halls but when I stepped out, they all fell silent. 
I felt every pair of eyes on me as we left. I hoped they didn’t think 
they were intimidating me. Being stared at had pretty much been my 
life-long job description.  
Overhead, dragons flew in formations. "Why are they different?"  
"Huh?" Esgeril stopped.  
Royal Dragoneer   82 
 I pointed up. "The formations. Each color group is flying 
differently from the rest. Wouldn’t it look better if they all flew the 
same way?"  
She shook her head. "Formations are designed to take advantage 
of each dragon’s strength. Oranges are the biggest and strongest. And 
the most stubborn, just like their riders. Blues like your Farean are 
the fastest. They can be quick to temper as well." I recalled how 
willing Farean had been to eat half the nobility of Darneta at the 
hatching and nodded.  
Esgeril continued. "Greens are the most agile, sometimes  of 
morals as well as body. They are the best at getting in and out of a 
tight spot without getting caught." She paused a second and her chest 
swelled. "But Reds are the most steadfast creatures in all the land. 
Only they can fly steady enough for an arche r." 
"You have a Red dragon, I’m guessing?"  
"Yeah. Baran. He’s the best dragon ever. Every Dragoneer is 
going to say that, but in my case, it’s true. He understands me better 
than anyone."  
The Colonel’s office was small compared to the dragon sized 
building s of the rest of the camp. However, it did have an entire wall 
missing, covered over with a huge sheet of canvas. Esgeril saw me 
staring at it as we approached. "It rolls up to allow Korth to join in 
meetings." I tried to imagine a dragon sitting in on one  of my father’s 
conferences, stuffed into one of the hard wooden chairs and sipping 
tea from Mother’s delicate, human -made china.  
I giggled and Esgeril shot me a puzzled look. I shook my head and 
the door to the office opened at our arrival. An aide looked  at us and 
said, "Ah, Princess Kalia. Please, come in. The Colonel is expecting 
you." He turned his attention to Esgeril. "You can go to breakfast 
now. Somebody else will retrieve her when they are done."  
Esgeril gave the aide a nod and left. I followed hi m inside. He 
pointed to a bench in the antechamber and knocked on the door to 
the Colonel’s office. I sat as he went inside and spoke to the Elf in 
83  Ash Rober ts 
 charge. A moment later, he returned and waved me in. I stepped 
inside the office, and he shut the door behin d me.  
"You’re late." The Colonel didn’t wait for me to sit.  
I settled into the small wooden stool on the opposite side of his 
desk. "I’m sorry, sir. I didn’t know you used the tower to tell time 
here." I looked down, folding my hands in my lap as I balance d on 
the tripod structure.  
"No, I mean you’re two days late." He shook his head. "The other 
new Dragoneers arrived from the hatchery two days ago. That makes 
you two days behind learning the basics. You’ll have to make it up on 
your own time. Meanwhile, yo u will have chores like anybody else. 
Don’t expect any special treatment here. The King’s daughter isn’t 
any different from a shopkeeper’s son as far as Dragoneers are 
concerned."  
"With all due respect, sir." I straightened and looked him in the 
eye. "I do n’t plan to be here long. I came to find a new rider for 
Farean. Once that is settled, I’ll head back to the capital. I don’t 
know if I’ll be welcome at the castle, but I’ve made some friends 
there and can find work."  
"What are you talking about?" He title d his head, giving me a look 
as if I’d said something preposterous; like Goblins were my friends. 
Well, I had a dragon in my head and we made peace with my 
grandfather’s killers. Maybe that idea wasn’t too far out either.  
"I’m talking about the fact that I  know nothing about dragons, 
and Farean deserves better than that. She needs a rider that can turn 
her into the greatest blue the Dragoneers have ever seen. Surely, 
there was someone at the hatching that wasn’t chosen but who has 
been trained up for this. Of course, I’d like to meet them first, to see 
if they’re a good fit. Farean can’t just go to anyone."  
His face contorted into a frown and then a grimace as I finished 
my speech. Then for moment, we just sat, staring at each other.  
"What you are asking is impossible," he said.  
"Impossible? You mean there is nobody else available without a 
dragon? I might know someone already," I said, thinking of my maid.  
Royal Dragoneer   84 
 "I mean that the bond between you and your dragon is 
unbreakable. You cannot leave her because you’re s cared, or you 
want a more manageable pet. Frankly, even suggesting such a thing is 
the most sickening thing I’ve ever heard, and I was reading a report 
on Goblin atrocities before you arrived." He reached for a scroll on 
his desk and flung it at me.  
I duck ed, but the wooden spindle struck my arm. "Oww." I 
rubbed the red mark. I stood up, knocking over the stool. I bent to 
pick it up but stopped, kicking it away from me instead. "Why are 
you so angry with me?" I demanded, glaring at him.  
"Angry?" He laughed.  "This isn’t angry? This barely rates as 
annoyed on my scale. This has nothing to do with you, Princess." He 
spat the word, making it sound more like a slur than a title worthy of 
respect. "This is about your dragon. You are a pathetic excuse for an 
Elf an d Farean is stuck with you. Those are the facts. Every 
Dragoneer who has ever flown knows they aren’t worthy of their 
mount. It humbles the most confident man and makes him feel the 
fool to be owned by a beast so grand. I dare say it even makes a 
Princess doubt her useless, pompous upbringing. But that doesn’t 
mean you can quit. Quite the opposite."  
"I’m not trying to be falsely humble here, I assure you," I argued. 
"Look at me. Do you really think I have any business caring for one 
of our most precious mil itary assets? I don’t know what I’m doing."  
"No, you don’t. And that’s mostly your fault. You ran off like a 
spoiled little girl instead of staying at the hatching grounds where 
others were available to mentor you." He struck the desk with his 
hook. That s ection of the wood was filled with pock marks from 
similar attacks. He used the wedged in claw to pull himself up, 
returning the advantage of height to him. "I’m not saying you aren’t a 
terrible choice for a Dragoneer. You are. But if you leave that dragon , 
you will break her heart. And I don’t mean in a figurative, lovesick 
teenager way. The dragon bond is the strongest magic left in the 
world. If Farean believes, for one second, that you’ve truly rejected 
her, her giant reptilian heart will stop beating."  
85  Ash Rober ts 
 "No—I would never want that. Isn’t there another way?" I 
croaked, feeling my own heart in my throat.  
"There is not. And, so help me, if you do anything to mistreat that 
dragon, you’ll be spending a lifetime in the Dragon Caves. And don’t 
think your father  could overrule Dragoneer justice. The caves are 
prison to criminal Dragoneers and dragons from all seven kingdoms. 
Now get out of here before I decide to send you there just for being 
an idiot."  
I stood, openmouthed, trying to process what he’d told me. 
Authand picked up the ink blotter and threw it at my feet. I jumped, 
but the blue ink still splattered on the pigskin boots that Theron had 
given me. He looked for something else to throw, and I got the 
picture, racing for the door. I didn’t acknowledge the  aide, even as he 
held the outer door for me so I could escape his boss.  
Lewon sat on a rock wall a few feet from the office, whittling a 
stick with the dagger he’d used to kill the Goblin a few days ago. He 
saw me and stood. I cut away from him, wanting n othing more than 
to go back to my quarters and cry in privacy.  
He sidestepped and cut me off, so I ran straight into his body. 
Again. We were beginning to make a habit of that. Lewon wrapped 
his arms around me, gripping me tightly so that I couldn’t escape . 
"Leave me alone." I choked back a sob.  
"Hey, don’t worry about him. He’s like that with everybody."  
"I doubt that," I said, struggling against Lewon’s hold. My eyes 
were already wet and full of unshed tears, but I couldn’t hold them 
back much longer.  
"No, really. Did you see all the marks on his desk? He doesn’t 
need to stand up that way. He does it for affect to scare the newbies.  
I sniffed. "Are you sure?"  
"Yeah." He grinned at me, his dimples showing, and my heart 
lifted a little. Maybe this wouldn’t b e so bad —getting trained by 
Lewon. Deciding to give up Farean had been the hardest decision I 
had ever made. Harder than leaving home or breaking up with Etlin. 
And now the Colonel was saying I couldn’t —that it was impossible. 
Royal Dragoneer   86 
 Wasn’t that a good thing? I h ad built myself up for the inevitable 
heartbreak of it for so long; I didn’t even know how to feel anymore. 
Fear? Hope? Relief?  
Lewon felt me relax and loosened his arms some, adding, "But 
he’s still going to give you extra duty for missing an entire month  at 
the hatching grounds and two days of training. Make no mistake. 
When the Colonel says something, he means it. You’re going to be so 
sore."  
"Great! " How much extra work would make up for saying "the 
most sickening" thing the Colonel had ever heard?  
"Hey , don’t worry," Lewon said. "When you’re not in classes or 
doing extra chores, I could help train you to get you caught up."  
"Yeah, okay." I nodded. "Let’s do it."  
"You mean right now?" he laughed, surprised at my sudden 
determination. "How about this?  We have free time after dinner. 
There’s a beach on the north shore of the lake. Meet me there an 
hour after we eat, and I’ll get you up to speed."  
I smiled. Alone on a beach as the sun was setting? That was the 
best news I’d heard all month. "But dinner i s so far away," I moaned. 
"I haven’t even eaten breakfast yet."  
"Well, let’s take care of that," he said, guiding me to the mess hall. 
When we arrived, he waved me inside. "I’ve already eaten and need 
to get back to my classes. See you after lunch." I star ted inside. "Oh, 
and Kalia?"  
I stopped. "Yes?"  
"Get yourself a proper set of clothes. You won’t be able to fight in 
a dress. And you looked pretty ridiculous flying in it yesterday. Let’s 
just say there was a reason I wouldn’t let you fly ahead of me." He 
grinned and left. I stood at the door, red from the tips of my ears 
down to my toes. I entered the mess, taking a moment for my eyes to 
adjust to the dim light. Outside, three bells tolled, their tone rising 
then falling. The Dragoneers around the room sto pped talking at 
once, creating an odd quiet punctuated only by the chime.  
87  Ash Rober ts 
 Then, they rose and made for the exits. Several pushed past me, as 
if I wasn’t there. After being knocked repeatedly, I gave up expecting 
common decency from them and pressed myself against the wall.  
Seconds later, the room was empty save for a servant who pushed 
a cart, piling the abandoned plates and bowls as she passed each 
table. I made my way towards a door marked "Enter" in hopes of 
finding my breakfast.  
"What are you still doin g here, girl?" The servant pushed the cart 
in front of me, blocking my progress. "Capture the flag is about to 
start."  
"I don’t care about a game. I’m hungry."  
"Breakfast is over. Now go." She turned her back to me and 
resumed her task. I sighed and left. If I couldn’t get a meal, I might as 
well find out about this game everyone was so eager for.  
Out on the parade field, dragons and their riders assembled 
according to their colors. I finally found Esgeril among a group of 
other Red riders. Her fiery hair a midst a sea of red dragon hides 
hadn’t exactly made her conspicuous.  
The dragons eyed me. I came a little too close to one, and it 
emitted a low growl. I shrank away from it. "What’s going on?"  
Esgeril saw me and pulled me away from the throng. "What are 
you doing here? You and Farean should be with the Blues. Find the 
other Blue riders and talk to Selkerdrim. He’ll explain the rules to 
you. Now go. The others think you’re here spying for your team." 
She gave me a small push and disappeared back into the cr owd.  
The Blues were easy to find. Each of the four Colors occupied a 
different quadrant of the field and kept well apart from each other. 
Farean was already there, pacing back and forth, bragging about her 
one short visit to the castle while the others ign ored her and went 
about their business.  
She saw me and perked up. " Kalia.  You’re  here! Are we going to play 
too?" 
"It looks that way. But I need to find Selkerdrim."  
Royal Dragoneer   88 
 "Someone looking for me?" The crowd parted, revealing a tall boy 
wearing a number three pi nned to his shirt. Tufts of dark brown hair 
stuck out from under a leather helmet. Selkerdrim flashed a smile as 
he approached. He looked near my age, and held himself in a manner 
that commanded respect. I felt a little self -conscious standing near 
him. He  had the bearing Father had tried to teach me, but I had been 
as bad at it as Mother’s lady -like grace.  
"Oh, you." His smile faded. He pointed to a group in mismatched 
gear looking a little lost. "Go over with the other first years. I’ll be 
there in a minu te. I don’t want to have to explain the rules more than 
once."Most of the other first year Dragoneers were my age, but there 
were a few older. They all quieted when I approached. "Hi." I waved.  
In return, they just stared. It was a tad rude, but I understo od that 
commoners had little chance to learn proper manners.  
Two riders broke into a fight, grappling each other to the ground. 
I stopped, unsure if I should break it up or if I even could. Before I 
could make up my mind, one of the boys pinned the other t o the 
ground. He stood above him for a second, then reached down and 
pulled him back to his feet.  
Selkerdrim approached our group with a golden banner tucked 
under his arm. "This is our flag." He unrolled it to reveal a vividly 
embroidered blue dragon span ning the length. "The object of 
Capture the Flag is to protect our flag and capture one belonging to 
the enemy. If another dragon catches you, they get ten points. Catch 
a flag and bring it back here for fifty points. The first team to a 
hundred wins. You lot will guard the flag. When the horn blows, 
follow me. Saddle up."  
The others climbed on top of their beasts and hooked into their 
harnesses. Mine was still in my room. Of course, Selkerdrim noticed 
me just standing there. "You don’t get a special invita tion. I expect 
my orders to be followed."  
"I didn’t bring my harness." I explained. "No one told me —" 
"You’re absolutely useless." From his dragon, Selkerdrim towered 
over me. "Look, the game is about to start. When it does, run to the 
89  Ash Rober ts 
 trees and hide. You can’t play without a harness." The horn blew. 
Selkerdrim’s dragon lifted off into the sky, soon followed by the 
other Blue dragons. The Reds, Greens, and Oranges rose in their 
respective sections of the field. Soon, Farean and I were the only 
ones left.  
I sighed. "Well, let’s go have a seat and wait for this to be over."  
We sat under the shade of an oak and watched the other dragons 
and riders flit across the sky. Authand and another instructor, " Aran’s  
rider", Farean provided somewhat helpfully, announced the game.  
The Orange dragons seemed to focus on defense. They made no 
attempt to hide their flag, but a wall of the giant beasts surrounded it. 
The younger ones, nearly double the size of an adult Blue, worked on 
points.  
A Green, undoubtedly thinking itsel f sneaky, dove from an 
impossibly high height towards the Orange flag. Its speed increased 
as it got closer to the ground. Wings tucked in, the approach was 
almost silent. If I had been facing the other direction, I would have 
never known it was coming. I held my breath. Would the green 
dragon be able to stop in time?  
I couldn’t hear the approaching dragon, but apparently other 
dragons could. Just as the Green was about to break through the 
circle, one of the Oranges flicked its tail at the speeding intrude r. The 
strike was quick and precise. Neither dragon nor rider even looked, 
but the blow found its mark. The Green was thrown off course, 
tumbling twice before righting itself mere feet from the ground.  
"Ten points for Orange." Authand’s voice boomed throug h a 
speaking horn.  
If the gambit had succeeded, Green would have won the game. 
For now, they maintained the lead, but the Blues weren’t far behind. 
"Ten points for Green," Authand reported on some unseen part of 
the field. That put them up to ninety. The m atch was pretty much a 
wrap at this point. One more play, and it would be theirs. At only 
sixty points, the Blues didn’t have much chance.  
Royal Dragoneer   90 
 Cheering erupted from Elves with dragon roars joining the chorus. 
"Kalia,  look", Farean practically shouted through o ur mental 
connection. " Selkerdrim  has the Red flag. We’re  going to win." 
But it wasn’t a forgone conclusion just yet. A dozen Reds, three 
Greens, and even a small Orange chased close behind. Perhaps 
Selkerdrim’s only chance lie in the fact that the other t eams were 
more interested in fighting each other for position than in actually 
catching up to him. The Blue and his rider came in over the lake, 
wind buffeting them and slowing their superior speed. The Greens 
rode the currents in loops and twirls, taking every advantage to close 
the gap. The Reds sliced through the wind as if it weren’t there. Even 
the Orange dragon barreled through, using mass and sheer force of 
will to beat the maelstrom.  
"Psst."  
Whoever wanted me could wait. I leaned forward at the very  edge 
of my stump to watch.  
"Psst."  
I turned and found Lewon ducked behind a tree. He waved for me 
to join him. I cast a glance back towards the action and moved his 
direction. "But I want to watch this," I complained.  
"You want to watch the game, or do yo u want to win it?" He 
pointed. Just beyond where he stood in a small clearing, the green 
flag hung from a tree branch. And no one was guarding it.  
"Why show me?" I asked confused. "Don’t you want to win?"  
Lewon shrugged. "Green wins this thing all the time . If you score 
the winning points, you’ll be a hero. It will go a long way towards the 
Dragoneers accepting you."  
I considered it. Authand already hated me, and no one else was 
likely to cut me any slack. And it was only a silly game. Besides, I 
hadn’t hea rd any rules against one team helping another. "Thank 
you," I whispered to Lewon, hurrying towards the flag before he 
changed his mind. When I got to it, I wrapped my fingers around the 
silk cloth and pulled. It spilled into my arms, and I raced back to 
Farean. "We don’t have a harness, so we’ll have to walk. But if we 
91  Ash Rober ts 
 hurry, we can beat Selkerdrim back to the field." I climbed on her 
back, thinking it would be faster. And if I did fall off it was only a 
few feet to the ground.  
Farean lumbered through the t rees out onto the edge of the field. 
As soon as we broke into the open, half the Green team was upon us 
like they’d been waiting there.  
"Run," I shouted.  
Farean moved as quickly as she could, but she was no land 
mammal. Ahead, Selkerdrim had broken free of  his pursuers. He was 
going to beat me there after all.  
I was so focused on those behind me; I didn’t notice the shadow 
above me. Green talons thrust down, grabbing the flag in my arms. I 
gripped the fabric tighter, but the Green rose into the air, pulling  me 
off Farean. I screamed and let go, bouncing off Farean’s back and 
rolling to the ground.  
"Ten points for Green," Authand announced. "Green wins the 
game!" The Green bearing the flag he’d stolen from me took a 
victory lap over the field. One by one, the  other Greens joined him.  
I slowly pushed myself up from the ground, just as Selkerdrim 
landed in the marked out square little more than twenty yards in front 
of me. He would have won the game for us if I hadn’t botched it. 
Even from the distance, I could see his scowl as he dismounted.  
"Why did you do that?" he yelled at me "I told you to stay under 
cover and keep out of trouble."  
"I found their flag. There was nobody there. I thought I could 
win." I didn’t want to reveal Lewon’s role in my play and get him in 
trouble with his teammates.  
"If there’s nobody protecting a flag, it’s a trap," Selkerdrim spat. 
"They were waiting for you to take it."  
I hung my head. "I’m sorry."  
"Get out of here before the other Blues descend," he barked. 
"This would have been our first win against Green in two years, and 
you ruined it." He stormed off, leaving me standing there like an 
Royal Dragoneer   92 
 idiot. Which maybe I was. Had Lewon set me up? I didn’t want to 
believe that, but it sure looked like he had.  
"I told you", Farean huffed.  
"He f ooled you, too," I said before storming off.  
 
 
 
I took the long way back to the barracks and most of the other 
Dragoneers beat me there. A group of second year girls chatted in 
the courtyard overlooking the drago n stables. As I approached, their 
conversation stopped.  
"Thanks for your play," a girl with a tattoo of a green dragon on 
her forearm said. "The Greens would have needed an entire minute 
to win without you." The others laughed at her taunt. First the 
possi ble betrayal by Lewon, and now this? My day just kept getting 
better and better. Still, it would only make things worse if I started a 
fight.  
I smiled, calling forth every ounce of grace tutoring my mother 
had forced on me. "Maybe next time, I can score po ints for my own 
team."  
They just stared at me. Obviously, I wasn’t going to impress them 
with my grace. But there were other ways to win people.  
"Anyone want to trade clothes?" I asked, pointing down at my 
now-dusty dress. "It seems I brought the wrong tru nk and don’t have 
any riding attire. So, I propose a swap. My dress for any of the outfits 
you have on right now. I assure you, my dresses are custom made 
with the most expensive fabrics and quite valuable."  
"Why would we want a bunch of frilly stuff like that?" One of 
them asked. "We ain’t got no use for it here." The other girls tittered.  
"Don’t you ever get dressed up?" I asked. "Perhaps there’s a 
Dragoneer dance, or some rider you’d liked to impress." This 
conversation wasn’t going at all how I had hope d it would.  
"You don’t impress a rider with a dress," another girl scoffed.  
Royal Dragoneer   94 
 "And there ain’t no dance ‘cept the one in the sky," another girl 
said, and they all laughed like she’d told a lewd joke. " Oh, wait a 
minute.  Dragons  mate in the sky." 
One of the g irls was a Dark Elf. I’d heard they had limited 
opportunities because of the prejudice against them, though there 
was also an old wives tale that if you touched one it was good luck. I 
turned to her. "How about you?" I squinted at the name sewn onto a 
patch over her right breast. "Lorra? If you don’t want the dress to 
wear, you could get a pretty penny for it at the market, especially if 
you said it was from the banished Princess herself. I’m sure you 
could use the money."  
She came towards me. Like the othe r riders, she was strongly built 
and broad, her muscles rippling under her midnight skin. Two of her 
friends approached too, flanking her. The one in Green, Florian, 
towered over the others, taller than most men, with the faintest hit of 
green to her compl etion. She had to be part orc. I’d heard such 
things happened in the provinces, but it was shocking to see.  
Lorra inched closer. "What? Just because of the color of my skin, 
you think I’m poor? Not all stereotypes are true, Princess." She made 
my title sou nd like a slur. "But I guess one is. The royal family is 
stuck up and doesn’t care about the common people. Like father, like 
daughter."  
"Don’t you talk about my father." I launched myself at her, but 
Florian grabbed me and lifted me cleanly off the ground . "Let me 
go." I squirmed against her grip, legs swinging uselessly in the air.  
"With pleasure, Your Highness." With that final word, she 
launched me into the air.  
I hit the ground hard and rolled twice before a rock jammed into 
my shoulder, stopping me ab ruptly. Pain throbbed, radiating down 
my arm. The girls continued to laugh while I lay there, trying to catch 
my breath.  
I could feel Farean’s growl in my soul. " I’m okay", I told her.  
"No, you’re  hurt. I will hurt them." 
95  Ash Rober ts 
 I fought the urge to shake my head. She couldn’t see me anyway. 
"Some battles  I have to fight on my own". 
"But-" 
"No, trust me, dear". I stood slowly. My pink gown now bore a gash 
and the fabric around the split was red from my bleeding shoulder.  
Just moving hurt, but I wouldn’t give t hem the satisfaction of 
seeing it. I pushed through the crowd to the barracks door, yanking it 
open, which rewarded me with a fresh wave of pain. I clenched my 
teeth and let the door slam behind me. I braced against the wall for a 
moment before trudging up  the stairs to my room. I fished out my 
makeshift harness, not bothering to change. The opposite stairwell 
led directly to the stables.  
I found Farean resting on some sun -warmed rocks. " I like this place, 
but you don’t. "Her lips pulled back revealing her fanged teeth, an 
expression I’d come to learn was the dragon’s version of a frown.  
"I’m fine," I lied as I patted her snout. Her presence calmed me, 
and my shoulder hurt less already. I held up the harness. "We’re 
going to go for a little flight. It seems I need to go shopping."  
"Ooh, will you get me something? " She lowered her head to let me slide 
the neck rope over it and down onto her chest.  
"Sure. I’ll see if I can find you a nice harness. Something flashy to 
make the other dragons jealous." The image o f a gem -encrusted 
breast plate flashed through my mind, and she nodded approvingly. I 
inspected my progress with the harness and pulled it off before 
rotating it and trying again. Hopefully, the new harness would be 
easier to put on.  
Satisfied, at last, th at I had it on her correctly, I climbed on and 
tied myself in. Then, we leapt into the air and flew out over the lake.  
"Where  are we going? " she asked.  
I bit my lip. " Hmm,  it looks like there is some smoke  on the horizon  to the 
north.  Maybe  that’s a village." 
She banked, and we started towards the grey wisps in the distance. 
I looked down as we flew over the camp. Below, Authand waved his 
hook in the air, shouting something that was lost on the wind. I 
Royal Dragoneer   96 
 waved back as we sped away over the vast expanse of for est that 
covered so much of the realm outside the capital.  
We settled into a languid pace, rising and falling as Farean caught 
thermal currents. I leaned into the ridge along her back, relaxing for 
the first time in days. There was nothing like a good fly to calm me. 
Farean loved to fly, and, despite my initial surprise at the revelation, I 
loved flying with her. Our happiness and contentment fed off each 
other until we were almost in a state of euphoria. I wished we could 
stay in the air forever, away from  court politics and peasant bullies.  
"We have company ", Farean said.  
"Where? " I twisted my head, looking for them.  
"Behind  us. A couple  miles back, but they’re  gaining  on us". The tiny red 
dot could have been anything, but I trusted Farean’s judgement. 
Florian must have so little to do that she would chase after me just to 
continue bullying me.  
"Let’s see if we can lose them in the forest,  "I suggested. As soon as the 
words formed in my mind, she dove below the treetops. Branches 
whipped past us, be she twi sted her body left and right, avoiding any 
collisions. We fell below the upper canopy and leveled out. There 
was no trail, and Farean had to constantly dodge the trunks jutting 
from the ground. But that would make it easier to lose our pursuers.  
A crashing  sound behind us announced they had dropped below 
the trees as well. I leaned forward and urged Farean to go faster. The 
forest blurred around us as she rose above one branch and below the 
next.  
"Stop!" a feminine voice cried behind us, making me look back . It 
wasn’t Florian at least, but I couldn’t think of any good reason for 
someone to be following me through the woods. I couldn’t see 
anyone, and Farean just kept going.  
I turned forward again and saw a giant oak looming ahead of us.  
"Watch  out!" I cried,  but Farean pumped her wings harder, ducking 
a smaller elm in our way. Moments from impact with the oak, she 
spread her wings and caught one of its branches with her rear legs.  
97  Ash Rober ts 
 Momentum carried us forward as her talons shredded the bark 
underneath. We rota ted around the bough and she let go. She 
pumped her wings to steady herself out as we flew in a completely 
different direction than before.  
I listened again, but the noise of those chasing us was receding.  
"That was amazing,  "I praised Farean,"  "my chest heaving with 
exhilaration.  
She replied in mumbled thanks, her attention elsewhere.  
I followed the direction of her head as she glanced up to avoid yet 
another obstacle and then back to the ground where a small grey 
rabbit ran through the underbrush.  
It duc ked into some heather, but Farean skimmed her claw 
through the plant. The rabbit bolted from its hiding spot and back 
into sight. Farean plucked it from the ground and rose back up to the 
mid-story of the forest, making it more difficult for someone to spo t 
us. Then she popped the rabbit into her mouth and swallowed it 
whole. I could feel her neck muscles work the meal down her gullet 
towards her stomach.  
I assumed her little snack meant we weren’t being chased 
anymore. She had heard them a mile away before . She would let me 
know if she heard them again.  
Farean slowed her pace and turned towards a creek, landing on the 
mossy bank gently. As she lapped at the water, and I felt the coolness 
on my own throat, which was nice because I didn’t really want to 
clamb er out of my harness for a drink.  
Farean finished drinking and we took off, staying beneath the tree 
cover, but that made it almost impossible to know which direction 
we were going. We’d long ago lost the smoke of the village or any 
other familiar landmark . I was afraid we were lost.  
"We are still heading  north, " Farean said, matter -of-factly. " I can sense 
directions.  It’s a dragon  thing." 
"So, you’re  like a homing  pigeon? " I asked, laughing.  
"No," she frowned inside my head. " I’m the thing that eats homing  
pigeons. " 
Royal Dragoneer   98 
 "Even so", I thought at her. " Let’s go back above the trees and get our 
bearings. " 
She rose and swerved around another tree. Her pace was more 
languid now. Her snack affected her more than I would have liked. 
As we crested, I saw that we were in deed still headed towards the 
smoke, which was closer now. There was no trace of the dragon that 
had been after us, just a lone hawk circling overhead.  
Clear of any threat, we rose higher and continued towards the gray 
column in the sky. The hawk above us screeched and dove at us. The 
sound was wrong, however, and I realized with a start it was the red 
dragon from before.  
Farean dipped back below the trees, but it was too late. Silver 
talons grabbed her tail, yanking us upward.  
Farean screamed in pain, and I joined her, crying out, as she 
thrashed and tried to free herself from the dragon’s grip. Thankfully, 
it was a small beast, not much larger or older than Farean, who 
grabbed a tree limb and hung on for dear life.  
The other dragon yanked, and we screamed once again as scales 
slaked off Farean’s tail.  
Without warning, the red let go, and we dropped, putting Farean’s 
full weight on the branch. The tree stood no chance against the full 
weight of a quarter -ton animal. The wood cracked and splintered 
before fal ling. As we flailed about, Farean got her wing caught under 
her foreleg. I reached for the joint, but it was too far from the 
harness. I untied the first rope holding me in, but Farean’s tumbling 
flipped us upside down.  
She cried in earnest now. Even if I could get the wing free, she 
couldn’t fly upside down. And I couldn’t get out of the harness with 
only gravity between me and the ground. The fall alone could be 
lethal, and even if I survived it, Farean might come crashing down on 
top of me.  
If that wasn’ t bad enough, the red came diving towards us, the way 
clear now that we’d bashed the forest apart.  
99  Ash Rober ts 
 As its shadow eclipsed us, all I could think was, " I’m sorry Farean.  I 
wish I’d been a better rider for you. " 
"I will be with you forever,  Kalia.  "She thoug ht back" . In death as in life". 

 
 
 
Just as my life flashed before my eyes, a young Elf leapt from the 
red dragon hovering over us. Rope uncoiled above her, and she 
landed with a thump onto Farean’s belly.  
It took every ounce of my willpower to turn and look at her, as 
Farean’s panic pounded through my chest.  
Esgeril hooked her legs around Farean’s neck. She leaned down 
but pulled back just before the whole world shuddered and blurred 
before a crack announced a nother tree limb yielding to our weight.  
Esgeril leaned down again, carefully, slowly, and pulled on 
Farean’s forelimb.  
Farean, panicked, instinctually fighting against her.  
"Tell her to relax," Esgeril said to me.  
"But we’re going to die," I answered.  
"Not if you do what I tell you. Now relax."  
I took a deep breath and then another. " Farean ", "let her help you". I 
sent to her, with calming vibes. " It’s our only hope." 
And, little by little, Farean relaxed the tension in her leg.  
Esgeril gave it another pul l and freed Farean’s wing. Before we 
had a chance to react, Esgeril gave a tug on her rope and rose from 
Farean. I looked up in time to see her dragon land on a branch clear 
of our destruction.  
Still looking up, my body lurched as Farean rolled and spread her 
wings to slow our descent. She pumped furiously and when we 
reached the next branch, she was able to grab hold of it. We landed 
hard against it but didn’t fall.  
Royal Dragoneer   102 
 I held my breath as my heartbeat slowed. Exhaling, I looked 
down. There was nothing below u s but ground. A scant twenty feet 
of air separated us from what would have been our last "landing." 
Farean trembled as that realization struck home for her as well.  
Esgeril and her dragon swept past us and landed on the ground a 
few feet away.  
Unwilling to  give up the grip that had been so hard won, Farean 
climbed down the trunk backwards like a treed cat. The going was 
slow, but neither of us wanted to be airborne just yet.  
Esgeril stood next to her red dragon, tapping her foot with arms 
crossed as we reac hed the ground.  
Once down, Farean collapsed onto the leafy forest floor, pressing 
herself to it like it was her best friend. I couldn’t blame her. I nearly 
tore the ropes off my harness in an attempt to dismount and kiss the 
ground myself.  
The final rope u ntied, I slid off her back in a maneuver that would 
have left my mother cringing if she’d witnessed it. I faked a stumble 
and sat next to my dragon digging my fingers into the soil. I looked 
up and caught Esgeril shaking her head.  
"Why were you chasing us? " I demanded, angry and full of 
needless adrenaline now that I wasn’t going to die. "You nearly killed 
us?" 
She flinched at my verbal assault, her eyes wide. "Nearly killed 
you? I saved your lives."  
Behind us, the dragons growled. " Let me deal with this, "I told 
Farean. "And thank you for that," I shouted at Esgeril. "But we 
wouldn’t have needed saving if you hadn’t attacked us."  
"If you hadn’t run away, we wouldn’t have had to chase you."  
"I had quite enough teasing for one day, thank you very much. I 
didn’t need you following me to town and harassing me more."  
"Harass? What are you talking about? Colonel Authand sent me 
after you because you’re not allowed to leave camp without 
permission."  
103  Ash Rober ts 
 "Well, I was going to town to get gear," I said, my anger waning a  
little. "Everybody keeps telling me as Dragoneer can’t wear dresses, 
but that’s all I have." I looked down at my sun dress, which was 
ripped in a dozen different spots now, not just the tear on the 
shoulder. Underneath, my skin was covered in scratches. B lood 
stained the torn fabric, but I couldn’t find the source on my body.  
Esgeril grinned at my sorry state. At first, she covered her mouth 
to hide the smile, but then her lips pursed, and her face contorted. 
Finally, she could hold it no longer and erupted into a full -on 
chuckle.  
"What’s so funny," I demanded.  
She ignored me as she dropped to her knees and beat the ground 
with her fists.  
"Stop it." I protested, but somehow found myself grinning too.  
She tried to compose herself but broke into another  fit of snorting 
laughter. Finally, she got it under control as she huffed for breath. 
"You were going the wrong direction," she said.  
"How was I supposed to know that. I don’t even know why I’m 
here. Everything I do is wrong."  
Her smile waned. "You’re new . And you don’t know much. That’s 
true. But you definitely belong here. That was some of the best flying 
I’ve ever seen."  
"Really? It was mostly Farean. And I’m sure it wasn’t anything 
special."  
Esgeril put a hand on my shoulder. "Both of my parents are 
Dragoneers; dragons practically raised me. I’ve never seen anyone 
maneuver through the woods like that. You should try out for the 
Dragon Race."  
The Dragon Race only happened once per century, and the 
winners’ species had bragging rights until the next one. Some had 
wanted the upcoming event cancelled due to the Goblin wars. The 
Nightbloods, the current trophy holders, had been the most vocal in 
favor of that plan. But my father had brokered a deal. In two years, 
the winner would lead the combined dragon armi es against the 
Royal Dragoneer   104 
 Goblins. But the idea of me and Farean winning was ridiculous. This 
was probably just another cruel joke Dragoneers pulled on unwanted 
first-years.  
"There’s no way I could win," I told Esgeril. "I probably wouldn’t 
even place in the qualifyi ng Run. People have spent their entire lives 
training for the Race."  
"They have." She nodded. "But half of them don’t show the skill 
you just demonstrated without any training at all. But it doesn’t 
matter to me if you enter." She shrugged. "If we don’t ge t you back, 
you’ll never be a Dragoneers anyway. If we hurry, there might still be 
time to go shopping today."  
She pulled herself onto her dragon’s back in a single motion and 
hooked herself into the harness. In a blink, they were airborne, rising 
up throu gh the hole in the forest canopy we’d made.  
Farean and I looked at each other. Neither of us was eager to fly 
again so soon, but we really didn’t have a choice. I trembled slightly 
as I mounted her and retied the knots on my makeshift harness. 
Farean lifte d off and we rose above the trees, taking a much more 
leisurely pace than Esgeril. They flew in meandering circles as they 
waited for us. Once we reached their altitude, they too off toward 
camp.  
We followed, but Farean stayed well behind. She wasn’t about  to 
let another dragon get within talon’s reach of her in the air again.  
The sun reached its zenith as we approached the camp. My 
stomach rumbled, reminding me that I hadn’t eaten since yesterday. 
After landing, I cast a glance towards the dining hall, but  Esgeril 
shook her head and took off towards the Colonel’s office. I could 
smell the scent of freshly baked bread wafting from the cafeteria, but 
I turned my back on it and followed after her.  
Being a dragon unconcerned by human rules and protocols, 
Farean  wandered towards where sides of beef were being handed out 
to dragons for their noon meal. I’d do anything to trade places with 
her right now.  
105  Ash Rober ts 
 The aide stood at the open door to the Colonel’s office, and he 
waved us in. We were obviously expected, but not  in a good way. I 
didn’t even have a chance for my eyes to adjust to the dim indoors 
before Colonel shouted, "Get in here right now! You, too. Esgeril."  
Her eyes grew large at being included, but she didn’t hesitate to 
follow me into the dragon’s den.  
The Colonel thumped his hook against his desk, chips of wood 
flying in various directions. "Kalia, maybe you could do whatever you 
pleased at the castle, but in the Dragoneers, we have rules that must 
be followed. You can’t run off without permission."  
"I didn ’t know."  
"That’s right, you didn’t. Because you haven’t bothered to learn 
the first thing about your duties. Starting tomorrow, you have no free 
time. When others are off relaxing, you’ll be reporting to Flatch for 
additional lessons. You will do this eve ry day until you’ve caught up 
with the rest of your hatching group."  
"Fine," I said. "But I need riding clothes. Apparently, my dresses 
aren’t quite sturdy enough."  
He looked over my tattered dress.  
I’d forgotten how much skin was exposed. I hunched my 
shoulders forward to make myself smaller.  
He shook his head. "No, they aren’t. But you must understand 
that Goblins have been spotted in this area, and the rules are there 
for your safety. You might feel invincible in the air, but greyskin are 
stealthy in the  wood. If you land your beast for a drink, you’re likely 
to find a blade coming out your chest." He raised his hook and 
waved it in front of me. "I lost my hand to Goblin’s defending your 
grandfather’s land because I got too cocky. And you know what 
happen ed to him. Don’t forget that. Never let your guard down."  
I gulped. No, I wouldn’t forget seeing my grandpa die. But I had 
forgotten the dangers that lurked, even after what had happened to 
Lewon and me on the way to Theron’s farm. I guess I had been so 
pissed off about the scrape with Florian and her gang, that I’d lost 
my head.  
Royal Dragoneer   106 
 "So, I have a quandary." The Colonel said. "You will be 
disciplined, but you also need riding gear before you can perform 
your punishment." He sat back down, a look of contemplation on his 
face. "You haven’t had a good start with the other girls, have you?" 
He asked.  
I shook my head, not meeting his gaze. I’d been taught grace and 
poise, but that didn’t seem to matter for anything out here. Instead, it 
had brought me sco rn and ridicule.  
He mulled the dilemma over, scratching at his chin with the blunt 
edge of his hook. Then, he seemed to finally remember that Esgeril 
was in the room with us. "Esgeril, you will accompany her to get 
gear, helping her discern what she needs.  And then you, Kalia," He 
turned back to me, "will spend tomorrow working in the stables for 
the stunt you pulled today."  
Esgeril gave me a sympathetic glance. Stable duty was bad. I had 
helped Theron clean out the pig sties a few times, and they were 
small animals, but it had been back -breaking work. And of course, I’d 
cleaned up after Farean, but she was petite for a dragon. But Esgeril 
didn’t argue about her duty, and neither did I. We both just nodded, 
and I gave out a soft, "Yes, sir."  
The Colonel was already examining a scroll on his desk. Without 
looking up he barked, "Dismissed!"  
We didn’t need to the told twice and quickly fled the office.  
"The town with shops is south of here," Esgeril said, heading for 
the stables. "We’d better head out before he changes his mind."  
I was starving, but maybe there would a chance to eat in town. At 
the stable, I had to pull Farean away from her meal, hoping she 
hadn’t eaten too much to affect her flying. She was grumpy about 
leaving again, and I couldn’t blame her. I  tied my rope harness 
together, and we were back in the air.  
Riders can’t really chat when they flew. The distance, wind, and 
velocity made it almost impossible to converse. That’s why our mind -
speak with our dragons was so useful. So, Esgeril and I rode i n 
silence for an hour before smoke on the horizon announced the 
107  Ash Rober ts 
 presence of a settlement. My stomach gurgled anew, and Farean 
picked up her pace, feeling my hunger. We landed at a wide pavilion 
made of black rocks. After we dismounted, the two dragons quic kly 
curled up upon the stones and I could feel Farean slip into a slumber. 
A path led into the village proper, and Esgeril and I started down it. I 
recited a list of what I thought I might need, and she nodded without 
speaking, picking up her pace. Despite  her being a full head shorter 
than me, I had to jog to keep up.  
Esgeril led me down the dirt street to the tradesmen’s section of 
town. I slowed at each food stall until she had mercy on me. She 
reached into a pouch and handed me some bread and a pinch of  
stimleaf. "Rule number one of being a Dragoneer. Always pack a 
snack, because you never know when your next meal will be. Now 
hurry and eat this before we go inside."  
I didn’t have to be told twice and wolfed it down, hardly bothering 
to chew.  
A bell on t he door gave a quiet ring as we entered a small shop. A 
short woman dressed in a leather vest over a faded blue dress popped 
her head out from behind a curtain. She saw Esgeril and smiled. 
"Dear, how have you been? Look at you, you’re getting so tall. I’m 
going to have to put a stack of rocks on your head." She brought 
Esgeril into a fierce hug, her head barely above that of the young 
Dragoneer.  
"Aunt Tirada, this is Princess Kalia." Esgeril extracted herself 
from the older woman’s grasp.  
Tirada stopped bre athing a moment. Her eyes widened before 
springing into action, dropping to a knee so fast that she nearly took 
her niece down with her.  
I blushed for the millionth time today. "Please, stand up. Besides, 
I’m not even a princess anymore." I frowned.  
She ro se and wrapped her arms around me. "I’d heard rumors that 
there was an upheaval in the capital with dragons involved, but didn’t 
know they involved you, my child."  
I stiffened. "I’m not a child," my voice cracked.  
Royal Dragoneer   108 
 She pulled away from me, staring into my e yes. "No, of course 
not. You are a beautiful young woman and now a Dragoneer to boot. 
Once you adjust to the changes in your life, there will be nothing to 
stop you." She glanced over my torn dress. Not for the first time 
today, I wished I’d had a chance t o change before we left. "Now I’m 
guessing you came for some proper riding gear?"  
I nodded, and she whirled into motion. She plucked a tape 
measure from nowhere and took measurements which she chalked 
onto a slate she kept tucked in her apron pocket. Withi n a minute she 
had measured every inch of me as thoroughly as the Royal Taylor did 
in an hour.  
"You’re in luck," she said, smiling. "You’re almost an exact match 
for riding gear I was already working on. I can adjust it and have it 
ready this afternoon. I’ ll just make a new set for the customer it was 
intended for."  
"I couldn’t –" I started, but she put a hand up and shushed me.  
"Tut-tut," she said. "She won’t be back until next week anyway. 
That gives me plenty of time. Do you need a harness?"  
I looked at the rope marks on my arms and my ankles and 
nodded.  
"Farean is about ten hands tall and maybe five wide," Esgeril said. 
"But she’s only as old as Baran. My guess is she will be near twice 
that by the time she is full -grown."  
Tirada nodded and disappeared i nto the back. She returned with a 
heavy looking saddle with straps longer than my arm that terminated 
in steel buckles. She handed it to me, and I nearly threw it in the air, 
surprised by how light it was. My hand slid over the saddle. Like the 
harness its elf, it weighed next to nothing.  
She noticed my puzzlement and explained, "Aluminte. It’s difficult 
to get but extremely light."  
My hand instinctively went for my purse. I had a fair amount, 
probably more than anyone else at the training camp. But it would n’t 
last forever, and I didn’t think I would ever see another dime from 
my parents.  
109  Ash Rober ts 
 "I might need something a little more basic," I admitted.  
"No, you misunderstand," Tirada said. "This is a gift. And I’m so 
glad to see Esgeril has made a friend. She’s been so withdrawn since 
her father died."  
Esgeril glared at her aunt. "I have not. I’ve just been busy. 
Speaking of which, Kalia needs to see if that harness fits, and you 
have a suit of leathers to finish." She tugged at my arm and pulled me 
towards the d oor. 
"I—well, thank you." I stammered. "Still, I must pay you 
something." But Esgeril had already pulled me out to the street.  
"You can argue with her about payment when we come back for 
the riding leathers," she said. "But I can already tell you, you’ll l ose."  
I followed her, shifting the saddle to a two -handed grip as I 
struggled to keep up with her half -run towards the dragon stones. 
She turned a corner, and I called, "Wait up."  
Around the building, she stood waiting, impatiently tapping her 
foot. 
"Hey, what’s the rush?" I asked. "We can’t leave until the leathers 
are done anyway, and your aunt was really nice."  
"I know," she said, rolling her eyes. "My entire family is painfully 
nice."  
"And that bothers you?" I asked, incredulous.  
"Listen," she said, sto pping and whirling toward me. "I love my 
family, okay, but they always look on the bright side. They always 
have a smile for everyone. Or a kind word or deed. And things aren’t 
always rainbows and happiness. Sometimes things suck, and they just 
don’t get t hat." 
"Okay," I said, taken back by her vehemence. "So, you’re sad, and 
they don’t get that?" I took a stab at her problem with her overly -
cheerful family.  
"Exactly!" she threw up her arms in frustration. "My father died 
nine months ago, and I’m supposed t o be over it? I’m supposed to 
put on a happy face and smile for the family, so they won’t worry 
about me. I don’t know how they can just move on like he never 
Royal Dragoneer   110 
 existed. It’s not right. Who will remember him if we don’t? It’s like 
they’re erasing his existen ce with their smiles and pat phrases. And 
every time I see them, they expect me to erase him too." She 
stopped, tears glistening in her eyes, glancing around and realizing we 
were still on the street, though no one was really paying attention to 
us. 
"I saw  my grandpa die when I was five." I said, feeling her pain. 
"No one can ever erase that. How did your father die?"  
"It was a Goblin ambush," Esgeril said. "My parents were riding 
on a routine patrol when a net caught mom’s dragon and dad caught 
a spear try ing to cut them loose." I could see her knuckles turning 
white as she pressed her fingers into her palms. "The day he died, I 
vowed I’d become a Dragoneer and avenge his death." She took off, 
headed around another corner and I followed, our dragons coming 
into view as we rounded it.  
Farean picked up her head, cocking it slightly. " Baran  says they will 
kill every Goblin  in the kingdoms ". "Is that our job now?" 
"Goblins killed Esgeril’s father," I explained.  
Farean’s eyes narrowed. " Then we will help them". 
I couldn’t imagine ever killing someone, even as hideous a creature 
as a Goblin. I mean, I knew it would be part of my job as a 
Dragoneer. But I had once thought just like Esgeril about dragons —
that they were hideous beasts —that they should all die because of 
what one had done to my grandfather. And now I had a dragon as a 
best friend and companion. Was it possible we had misjudged 
Goblins in the same manner?  
It was a startling thought, but one I couldn’t easily dismiss.  
 
 
 
I put my new harness on Farean’s back and Esgeril showed me 
how to connect the straps. The front went on the opposite side of 
her forelegs than I had put the ropes. The saddle felt firmer and 
much more secure. The scalloped underside of the buc kles fit against 
the scales of her belly as if they had been molded to them.  
Esgeril directed Farean to fly and do some loops to see how she 
could move in it. I stepped forward, but she put a hand on my 
shoulder. "You don’t have your gear yet. There’s noth ing for the 
straps to connect to. And riding without a harness usually ends 
poorly."  
I thought back to my first ride when I had slid from Farean’s back 
before she was more than a few feet in the air. I nodded. " Go on," I 
told Farean. " Fly without  me. I’ll be down here admiring  your grace." 
Exhilarated by my flattery, she leapt into the air. Baran followed 
Farean into the sky and they swooped around each other, diving at 
each other in mock attacks and generally frolicking in the sun.  
"Baran is a male?" I ask ed blushing, but the answer was obvious 
by what her dragon displayed when he flew overhead. "I thought 
dragons only bonded with riders of the same gender."  
"Sometimes they don’t." Esgeril didn’t add anything more to that.  
We watched them in silence for som e time before I heard Farean 
whine. " Aww,  I don’t want to". Baran landed on the rocks and Farean 
followed him to the ground. I removed the harness and placed it with 
Esgeril’s in a large metal box near the edge of the pavilion.  
We were halfway back to Tira da’s shop before I broke the silence. 
"If you don’t mind telling me, I was wondering what happened to 
your father’s dragon after he died."  
Royal Dragoneer   112 
 She slowed almost to a stop. "The bond between a Dragoneer and 
dragon is very strong. Unbreakable. I’ve known Dragone ers who lost 
their dragon and have barely been able to function after that. Some 
don’t. The Dragoneers have a home in the mountains where those 
who can’t take it are sent, broken husks of Elves and other races so 
catatonic that the healers have to feed and  bathe them."  
I shuddered at the thought. "But what if the dragon survives their 
rider?" I couldn’t imagine similar homes for dragons.  
"A dragon that’s lost their rider is dangerous. They lose their 
minds. They have to be put down or they will attack anyon e, even 
friends."  
"Is that what happened to…"  
"To Niden? No. Dad died in battle. If a rider -less dragon in peace 
is dangerous, one in battle is even more so. Niden took down an 
entire company of Goblins before being brought down by their 
archers. It allowe d mom and Susa to escape." Her voice caught again, 
and this time tears openly rolled down her cheeks. I thought she was 
done speaking, but she resumed. "Then those beasts, those 
abominations, they ate him. Goblins eat dragon met, and they ate 
dad’s dragon in front of his corpse."  
I had no words to comfort her. In fact, I was kind of feeling 
traumatized and in need of comfort myself. Fortunately, we had 
arrived at Tirada’s shop, and I could turn my mind to other matters.  
As we entered, Tiranda was pushing a wooden mannequin out to 
the floor. On it were the new riding leathers, the same Aluminte 
buckles shining around the waist, waiting to accept the straps from 
Farean’s harness. The breastplate was dyed blue nearly equal in color 
to her scales, although, look ing closer, I noticed the royal gold and 
black woven into the stitching. The design reversed for the pants 
with black suede inlaid with blue.  
I sucked in my breath. "It’s beautiful. But how did you make it so 
quickly?"  
Tirada shook her head. "Like I told y ou. This was nearly finished 
already. It needed only some minor modifications. And a happy 
113  Ash Rober ts 
 accident that both your dragon and the originally client’s are Blue. I 
sent your measurements to a tailor and had some more day -to-day 
clothes sent over." She pointe d to a bundle tied in sackcloth on a 
wooden chair. "There’s only a couple sets, but it should get you 
through until you can get back to order a new wardrobe when you 
have more time."  
I looked down at my feet, still clad in the leather boots Theron 
had give n me. "That may be a while." I said, thinking about Authand 
and how little he trusted me.  
"Well, we hope to see you again soon." Tiranda smiled. "If you 
want to change out of that dress, you can use my workroom behind 
the curtain," she said, pointing.  
"I can help if you want," Esgeril said shyly. "Riding leathers can be 
a little confusing the first time."  
"Thank you," I said, grabbing the bundle of clothes while Esgeril 
wheeled the mannequin through the curtain. The area dwarfed the 
front of the shop and li ght streamed through large windows on either 
side positioned high on the walls to capture the most daylight. The 
space was tidy, with even the sheets of leather meticulously stacked 
with edges aligned. Father always said that an organized workspace 
was a s ign of a master craftsman.  
I quickly shed my tattered dress. I gave my chest wrap a cursory 
inspection, but it seemed to have made it through my adventures 
unscathed. Tiranda had given me two functional sets of clothing in 
brown, similar to the ones that E sgeril wore under her riding garb. 
The shirt gave me no problem, but the breeches only reached mid -
thigh before getting stuck.  
I lowered them, but Esgeril put her hand on my arm. "You forgot 
to undo the clasp." Her hand moved to a wooden toggle between my 
legs, accidentally brushing the inside of my thigh. The touch made 
me shudder. It was involuntary, embarrassing, and Esgeril definitely 
noticed, immediately jerking her hand away.  
"The only trousers I’ve ever worn were much too big on me, and I 
could just slide them up. I never wore pants before I was thrown 
Royal Dragoneer   114 
 out," I said sheepishly. "Mother said it wasn’t ladylike." I studied the 
toggle intently, and then fumbled with pushing it through the hole.  
"And you’ve never opened the fly of somebody cute, hidden fro m 
sight in some dark corner of the castle?" She grinned lecherously at 
me. 
"What? No! I had a boyfriend. We were engaged, but all we ever 
did was kiss. There was always some servant around to keep an eye 
on us." I didn’t like thinking of Etlin. I’d been av oiding thinking of 
him for weeks. And now I was beginning to realize our relationship 
hadn’t been the romantic, passionate courtship I’d imagined it to be. 
There was so much I didn’t know about boys. And despite the fact 
that it looked like Lewon had set m e up this morning, I still felt 
drawn to him. I gave a sidelong glance at Esgeril, daring to ask, "Do 
you think that’s something Lewon would expect me to do?"  
Her expression darkened at his name. "He comes from the west." 
She shrugged. "They favor  fast, hot courtships there. Why? Do you 
fancy him?"  
"Yeah," I admitted. "I wouldn’t mind his parents, err, his guardian, 
arranging a match with mine."  
She snorted in laughter, not even bothering to cover her mouth. 
"Arranging a match?" she choked out. "Th at’s rich. Dragoneers don’t 
arrange marriage. We rarely bother with marrying at all."  
The color drained from my face. "Not even your parents?"  
The mention of her recently deceased father sobered her quickly. 
"They loved each other very much. More than the couples in your 
fancy court, I’d bet. But when ma had me, dad simply moved in with 
her, and they informed their commander they would need to ride in 
the same company."  
It didn’t seem right to me, but the look on Esgeril’s face made me 
drop the subject. She  scowled to herself while I examined my 
reflection in the polished metal mirror in the corner. The garments fit 
well, much better than I would have expected from a provincial 
tailor. I was beginning to rethink my belief that the capital had all the 
115  Ash Rober ts 
 best tr adespeople. I picked up the leathers and held them up to 
Esgeril.  
Wordlessly, she took them from me and directed my limbs into 
the appropriate holes, like her personal puppet. I felt badly that I’d 
upset her asking about her parents. But I couldn’t take it  back.  
I fastened the buckles and examined myself again. They fit like a 
second skin, tight enough to keep from binding but loose enough to 
allow free movement. As I admired myself, Esgeril stormed out, 
pushing past the curtain.  
I followed her out to the m ain part of the shop, but she was 
already out the door, standing on the curb, her shoulders hunched.  
Tiranda followed my gaze and shook her head. "She just needs 
some space. Just be there for her as a friend. That is the best thing 
for her. If you can do t hat, I will consider myself the better end of 
the bargain for your leathers."  
"You don’t have to buy my friendship," I protested. "I need a 
friend as much as she does. And I have to pay you something. At 
least let me cover the cost of materials."  
"Not toda y, young lady. I insist." Her face hardened, and I 
withered under her glare. She giggled at my expression, her face 
softening. "Esgeril is my only remaining family. I would give anything 
to see her happy again. And her father’s death isn’t the only thing 
she’s dealing with. Now go, before she takes off and you get lost in 
town." She pushed me in the direction of the door just as Esgeril 
stepped off the curb, heading back toward our dragons without me.  
I looked back, breathed, "thank you," and left, chasing Esgeril 
down the street.  
We reached the dragons in silence. I was getting a little tired of the 
cold-shoulder treatment but remembered Tirada’s advice to just be 
present. Esgeril waited in silence for me to strap myself into my new 
harness on Farean’s back . It took a couple of tries, but she didn’t say 
anything or offer advice from her position on Baran’s back. Then, we 
lifted off and rode back to camp, arriving as the sun approached the 
horizon.  
Royal Dragoneer   116 
 After we landed, I removed the harness and set it in a box in  the 
stable with Farean’s name on it. Tomorrow, I’d be cleaning the 
stable, polishing and oiling other rider’s saddles, and who knew what 
other back -breaking work. And I wasn’t looking forward to it.  
I looked up to find that Esgeril was already gone.  
Someh ow, I’d managed to make my first female Dragoneer friend 
and lose her, all in the same day. So much for Tirada’s vote of 
confidence in me. Mother always said I asked too many questions —
that I was too curious. But I didn’t know how to be any other way.  
I made my way back to my room, catching glares and stares from 
Florian and her friends. I dropped to my straw mattress, not 
bothering to change.  
It wasn’t until I was about to fall asleep that I remembered the 
after-dinner training meeting at the lake Lewon ha d promised me.  
Had he waited there for me, wondering why I hadn’t come? Or 
had his invitation been just another joke to humiliate the princess 
Dragoneer?  
I had no idea. And honestly, at that point, I was too tired to care.  
 
 
 
I stood before the entrance to the dragon stables in the early 
morning light. I was beginning to understand why Father chewed 
stimleaf every morning. Thinking of him brought a twinge, as always. 
But if this was to be my lot in life, I was de termined to make the 
most of it.  
Metal clanged behind me. "You’ll need these," Esgeril said. She 
held a bucket in one hand and a rake in the other. "These should be 
inside, but I overheard Florian last night. Don’t expect to find any 
supplies."  
"Thank you, " I tried to meet her gaze, but I guess what I had said 
the day before was still too raw, and she looked away. "Where are 
yours?" I asked.  
"It's not my punishment." She jammed her fists in her pockets. 
Dragoneer pockets were designed for function, unlike the clothing 
I'd once owned. Half of my outfits didn't even have pockets. What 
need did I have to carry things? I had servants for that. But now I 
could carry supplies for a day or more in the pouches that adorned 
my clothing. Or, apparently the hands of s omebody that was upset at 
me for reasons she wouldn't say.  
"Just do yourself a favor," Esgeril said after a pause. "Don't say 
anything like that to the others. It won't —" The toe of her boot slid 
through the dirt between us. "It won't end well for you." Wi th that 
cryptic message, she turned and left.  
Has Baran  told you what's  going on?I asked Farean. Because  I'm lost. 
He says that it is beneath  the affairs  of dragons.  I'm going back to sleep. 
Menoth  is in heat, and I got no sleep last night due to the males boasting  of how 
they would  mate her. 
Royal Dragoneer   118 
 I blushed at the image she sent over and my mind slipped to 
Lewon. Would he fight others for my hand? I imagine Etlin’s father 
had argued with the other dukes over whose toddler would marry me 
one day.  
None of this remi niscing about my life before the hatching would 
get me through my punishment more quickly. Clutching Esgeril's 
rake and bucket, I pushed open the door.  
Mucking the pens at Theron's had prepared me somewhat for the 
smell, but dragons were much bigger creatu res than pigs. Stalls lined 
all four walls for the distance of the building. It seemed smaller on 
the inside, until I realized the far wall was a divider for the other half. 
Just as the boys and girls at the camp were separated, so were our 
dragons. That m eant that Esgeril had to walk the entire length of the 
massive building just to enter from the boy's side.  
"It's about time you showed up." The laughter of several girls 
broke me from my thoughts. "Thinking you're just going to waltz in 
here after we're al l done?" I didn't need to look up. I'd only heard 
Florian’s voice once, but I wouldn’t forget it. I had a feeling I'd be 
hearing a lot of it over the next three years. "Don't worry, we 
wouldn't dream of denying her highness what she deserves."  
I looked ove r to the stall where they were sitting. Florian leaned 
against her Green dragon's hide which seemed to melt into the 
shadows behind her. The other girls from yesterday arranged 
themselves on pails nearby. Florian’s dragon’s stall was immaculate, 
but the ot hers were untouched.  
"I'm sorry about yesterday. I don't want any trouble," I said.  
"Then you better get to work. We've got our stalls covered. You 
can take care of the rest. But you better hurry. Somebody told 
Authand that you were avoiding your punishmen t." On that cue, the 
girls scattered to their own stalls as the door opened behind me.  
"Why aren't you cleaning?" The Colonel's voiced boomed behind 
me. 
119  Ash Rober ts 
 I whirled around with the rake still in my hand. Authand grabbed 
the implement from me before it hit hi s face and threw it at my feet. 
Even the dragons fell silent as they waited for his reaction.  
"I'm sorry," I said in a small voice. Why was I always saying that 
here? It was like I could never get anything right.  
He didn't move; he barely even breathed. Wh en Father got like 
that, I knew what came next wouldn't be good.  
"Why aren't you cleaning?" He repeated at last. "Why isn't anyone 
cleaning? Do you all want another day of punishment?" He said, 
louder. The words echoed off the stone walls. Florian and her friends 
scurried back to work, leaving me with an empty bucket and an angry 
Dragoneer.  
"I just got here. " I admitted after my ears stopped ringing.  
"Another day's punishment for tardiness." Authand looked like he 
was going to say something else but left i nstead.  
I leaned down to pick up the rake, but Florian stepped on the 
handle, pinning it to the floor. "You don't belong here," she said.  
"Don't you think I know that?" I stood, facing here. She was 
nearly a head taller than me and I had to look up to meet  her glare.  
She crossed her arms over her chest. "What a waste of a dragon. 
They shouldn't let you nobles come to the hatchings. There's 
someone out there who has worked hard their entire life, 
heartbroken and stuck in their life because you took their cha nce to 
become a Dragoneer."  
Florian turned her head back towards her companions who had 
mucked out their stalls into the central hallway. It was the space the 
dragons fed into when they entered through holes in the ceiling. 
"Come on, girls. We're done. The  rest is for her highness." Without a 
word, they filed past me.  
Over the next four hours, I carefully cleaned out each dragon's 
stall. As the day progressed, they woke and left. Their great wings 
spun over the muck pile, and I had to take several breaks to  move it 
outside. Other riders entered to tend to their dragons, but they 
ignored me as I worked. Was this how the maids in the castle had felt 
Royal Dragoneer   120 
 when I’d pretended they weren't even in the room with me unless I’d 
needed something? It was a horrible feeling and I vowed I would do 
better if I was ever allowed to return.  
 
 
 
The next morning, I followed Esgeril to a small arena near the 
dragon pavilion for the first class of the day —Tactics. But the 
professor, a small  woman with deep lines in her face, turned me 
away. "You are so far behind, dear, that you have no clue what is 
going on. Authand wants you to report to Flatch, instead."  
The Dragoneers who had arrived before us stared at me as I left 
the room, murmuring b etween themselves, undoubtedly discussing 
how much of a fool I’d made of myself once again. I went back 
outside and realized that I did not know how to find Flatch or even 
who he was. I turned and steeled myself to go back in and ask in 
front of everyone, cementing my reputation as the camp idiot.  
"Ho," a raspy voice called behind me. A whitehaired Elf stood 
hunched over where there had been no one a moment before. 
"Follow me." He turned sharply and strode across the grounds.  
Figuring he couldn’t possibly b e a new rider, I chased after him. I 
was surprised by how quickly he moved and was huffing by the time 
we reached a small hut by the lake. He pointed at a small rock half 
buried in the sand, and I took the hint to sit.  
"In the mornings, I will teach you th eory and, in the afternoon, 
you will go with Lewon to train."  
Had Lewon asked for that privilege or been assigned to me? Well, 
at least I’d get to ask him if he’d set me up in the Capture the Flag 
game.  
"Did you say something? Speak up, girl. My hearing is n’t what it 
used to be."  
"I didn’t say anything."  
Royal Dragoneer   122 
 "Good. Best to keep your mouth shut and your ears open." He 
disappeared into the hut and came back with a wooden chair that he 
placed in front of my rock, finally introducing himself as Flatch. He 
then sett led into his chair before launching into a history of the 
Dragoneers. My mind wandered, and I paid more attention to the 
position of the sun than to the lecture. I tracked its progress to its 
zenith thinking of seeing Lewon again. Finally, the bells tolled , 
signaling lunch. I said a quick thanks to Flatch for the lesson I had 
ignored and rushed off to the dining hall.  
After lunch, Farean and I flew to the spot by the lake where 
Lewon had said he would meet me. Calen splashed in the lake while 
Lewon whittled  away at a stick with a mean looking knife.  
"Sticks  are boring ". Farean commented, as we set down on the 
sandy beach. " Except  the big sticks Goblins  make to puncture  dragon  hide". 
My poor little dragon baby was growing up and learning the 
dangers of the wo rld. The thought made me sad.  
I fumbled with my harness buckles, hoping Lewon wouldn’t 
notice.  
I climbed down and took the saddle off Farean, saying, "Well, go 
on, then. Have fun and see what Calen can teach you." She took a 
running jump into the shallows and landed with a splash that 
threatened to soak me despite my distance.  
Lewon shoved his stick point down into the ground and folded his 
knife before acknowledging my presence. "You sure know how to 
get yourself in trouble. In just one day, you managed to  find more 
trouble than most Dragoneers find their entire first year."  
"Maybe I had some help," I said angrily, eyeing him. "You pointed 
me to a flag with a Green ambush around it, promising I’d the hero 
of the game. And somehow, it didn’t work out that wa y." 
"You think I set you up?" He asked, sounding hurt. "Do you really 
believe that of me after all we’ve been through together?" He was 
upset, that much was obvious. But was it because he’d been falsely 
accused, or caught in the act?  
123  Ash Rober ts 
 "I don’t know," I said , moving toward him. "Yesterday I was 
humiliated, mocked by my peers, tossed by a giant, almost died crash -
landing into a forest, didn’t eat all day, and managed to piss off the 
one other person who’s been remotely nice to me. It was a really bad 
day."  
"Well, now you’ve managed to piss off both people who’ve been 
nice to you," he said, but he was grinning. "You seem to have a real 
knack for it."  
"I know." I nodded, my blond curls falling in my face. "I’m very 
talented. Which is exactly why I need your help.  Please teach me so I 
don’t get into any more trouble."  
He shook his head. "I’m going to teach you how to fight. How to 
defend yourself and how to attack. Not really skills that will get you 
in less trouble." He pulled a scabbard down from the tree branch 
he’d been sitting under and handed it to me. "This is a practice 
sword. Completely dull edge."  
I held the short -sword. It was heavier than I expected. How did 
everyone carry these things around?  
"I don’t see why you need that," Farean complained, pausing h er 
splashing in the shallows. " Surely  a sword  is no match  for my talons ". 
"Because you won’t always be on dragon -back," Lewon answered 
as if he’d heard her. Maybe Calen had passed along what Farean had 
said. "Now hold up your sword," he instructed.  
I raised it above my head with both hands, then saw him grasping 
his one handed in front of his chest. I quickly lowered mine, passing 
it from hand to hand as if checking for balance before settling it into 
my right hand and assuming a similar position.  
He blinked. "You’re right handed? That’s going to make this more 
difficult. I’ve never met anyone before who didn’t favor their left."  
My face soured. "We spent nearly three full days together and you 
didn’t realize I was a righty?" Righties like me were rar e, sometimes 
considered abominations among the lower classes. If I had been a 
child in a trade, my right hand would have been tied behind my back 
until I’d learned to work with my left. But being a princess had 
Royal Dragoneer   124 
 certain advantages, including the right to us e whatever hand I 
preferred.  
But Lewon hadn’t even noticed until now. Which either meant he 
didn’t care about the stigma, or he didn’t care about me enough to 
notice.  
I lunged at him with my sword.  
He took a step to his right, dropping away from my thrust with 
ease. 
I swung again, and he blocked. I made several more attempts, each 
more impotent than the last, until I stood bent over, huffing from the 
exertion.  
"That wasn’t bad for your first try,’ Lewon praised me. "Now that 
I’ve seen your natural stance an d style, I know what I need to teach 
you."  
"You made me mad on purpose?" I managed in between pants, as 
my glare softened.  
"Of course. Righties tend to be sensitive about it. It was a sure 
way to get you riled up." He smiled.  
I couldn’t believe he’d baited  me like that. And I’d fallen for it, 
hook, line, and sinker. I was going to have to be careful around this 
one. He already knew me to well for his own good. And for mine.  
I turned just in time to see Farean, in flight, burst through the 
trees with Calen h ot on her trail. I hadn’t even noticed them leave the 
lake. Farean tucked her wings in and dove towards the water. My 
heart pounded as she approached it with rising speed. At the last 
moment, she unfurled her wings and glided over the lake, her wing 
tips m aking ripples in the still water.  
Calen made for her, but Farean reached the warm sand and rode 
the updraft like an arrow shot from a bow. She curved up and behind 
him, tagging his rump with her snout before dropping down and 
landing on the sand without so  much as a cloud. Calen landed next to 
her. " He says I’m a natural ", Farean squealed in my head. " I’ll be flying 
with the year two’s in weeks ". 
125  Ash Rober ts 
 "You however," Lewon said to me, "have a lot to learn. And I 
can’t say that you have much affinity for a blade."  
"Hmph. Don’t forget I’ve never held a sword before today. At the 
castle, the servants even cut my meat. If I’m so bad, you better get to 
work training me."  
"Then follow my lead. We will start with how to hold yourself." 
He stood with his legs spread, faci ng me. I tried to follow his 
example, but he frowned. "No, square your shoulders."  
I twisted my body which elicited a head shake.  
"No, no. Here’s let me show you."  
He closed the gap between us and put his hands on my shoulders, 
pushing them into the positi on he wanted. I felt warm at his touch 
and tried to think of something else before the blush appeared at my 
ears. 
"How long have you been practicing this?" I nodded at the blade 
in my hand.  
"Ever since Authand found me after the Goblins sacked my 
village. That day, I swore I would never be defenseless again."  
It seemed everyone at camp had a story of tragedy dealing with the 
Goblin war. All this time, I’d blamed the dragon that killed my 
grandfather and not the Orc who rode it.  
"And my job is to make sure y ou aren’t defenseless either," Lewon 
said. "So, let’s focus on defensive skills. I will attack, and I want you 
to defend yourself from me." He backed up a few steps and then 
came rushing at me.  
I raised my sword, but he easily slipped past my guard and landed 
the broadside of his weapon on my shoulder.  
"Ouch." I dropped my sword in surprise and rubbed where he’d 
hit me. I could already feel the welt forming under my tunic.  
"Pick it up!" he barked. I bent down, and by the time I was 
standing he was on top  of me. I raised my sword, but he was faster. 
He brought the pommel down on my head gently enough to allay any 
damage but still hard enough to hurt.  
Royal Dragoneer   126 
 He backed off, and I returned to the stance he had demonstrated 
earlier. He moved again. This time I blocke d his blow but fell 
backward from the impact. My head bounced against the hard 
ground and stars flashed before my eyes.  
"Hold!" I cried. I tried to sit up, but red -hot throbbing stopped 
me. 
He was beside me in a flash. "Are you okay?" His hands grabbed 
my shoulders as he pulled me up and inspected my scalp.  
I blinked away the worst of the pain and panted. "I’ll be okay; I 
just need to rest a minute."  
He nodded but said nothing. He sat down beside me and stared at 
me. His gaze unsettled me. Perhaps my fall w as more serious than I 
thought.  
I felt a rush of air and Farean landed beside me, sending soothing 
thoughts to my aching head. The leaves on the ground fluttered in 
the air currents she created. A melon -sized black rock with red 
streaks poked from the grou nd where her talons had disturbed the 
grass. I grabbed the rock and pulled it from the dirt. "What’s this?" I 
held it up, inspecting it. The red glittered in the filtered sunlight 
looking for the all world like blood flowing through its veins.  
Lewon grabbe d it out of my hands.  
"Hey!" I shrieked. I tried to stand to take it back but was 
overcome by dizziness and sat back down.  
He bent and gently placed it on the ground under a bush several 
feet away. He lowered it as gently as an egg before returning his 
attention to me.  
"That is firerock. It is rare in this part of the world, but very 
dangerous. If you had dropped that, it would have killed us all." He 
stood and held out his hand. I grabbed hold of it and he pulled me to 
my feet. The world spun around me and  I wobbled. "We’re done for 
the day," he said. "Farean, get Kalia back to camp, and to a healer. A 
head knock can be serious. I’d escort you, but I need to take that 
chunk of firerock into town so that it can be disposed of properly."  
127  Ash Rober ts 
 He helped me onto Far ean’s back and fastened my buckles, his 
hands grazing my stomach and thighs.  
I sucked my breath, relishing his touch. I thought about reaching 
out and touching him back —the damp hair curled at the back of his 
neck, or the sharp curve of his jawline. But I wasn’t brave enough.  
He finished his work and gave Farean a pat on the rump. "Fly as 
smooth as a red and get her back safely," he told her. She nodded at 
him and jumped into the sky.  

 
 
 
The jolt of Farean laun ching into the sky sent me reeling. My 
hands slipped from her neck ridge, but the harness held. I regained 
my hold and drew myself in close to her body. The ground rushing 
below us made my head hurt even more, so I caused my eyes. The 
day was still early, but I was so tired. Farean knew the way. I could 
just take a nap while we flew.  
"I’m worried  for you. You don’t feel right." Her words pulled me back to 
awareness.  
"What  do you mean?  I’m just tired and my head hurts". I patted her side 
as her powerful shou lders flexed in time to her beating wings.  
"No, something  is wrong.  I should  heal you". No sooner had she finished 
thinking those words than she started descending below the treetops.  
"Silly dragon.  You can’t heal me. Just take me to the healer  for some herb 
heads. " "No, that’s not right." 
"See, even your thoughts  are all wrong. " "And I have something  better than 
herbs.  I have magic. " 
"Since when do you have magic"? "Is this a real conversation  or is it a dream?  
It feels like dream. " 
"Baran  says magic flows through  a dragon  like blood.  We are the channel,  but 
our Dragoneers  are the source.  And you are awake,  but you feel fuzzy. " 
"But I don’t have magic". I protested" . Hardly  anybody  has magic 
anymore. " 
Farean landed on a bed of leaves with hardly a rustle. " Magic  is 
strong  in you. I can feel it. Now,  get off. I can’t do anything  from below you." 
I struggled with the buckles and slid to the ground. As soon as I 
was off, she turned and stood over me. The blur of motion made me 
dizzy, and I collapsed to my knees . 
Royal Dragoneer   130 
 "That’s  a good idea. Lie down,  "she ordered.  
I crumpled the rest of the way in compliance and felt her breath 
on my scalp. I tensed, all my old childhood fears of dragon attacks 
rising to the surface of my thoughts.  
"Oh, don’t be ridiculous.  "Hurt crept into her voice. " I would  never hurt 
you". 
I felt a talon touch against a tender spot on the back of my skull 
and winced, crying out as if she were stabbing into my flesh.  
"This is not good." "A wound  like this killed  Vernis’s  rider"." Her tone 
was now ting ed with fear.  
"Who?" I turned my head, forgetting to communicate mentally.  
"Shush ". "I need to concentrate  and draw out your dormant  magic. " Her hot 
breath blew against my head and I felt the lump tingle. She blew 
again, and the tingling intensified until it burned. I cried out, but 
Farean pressed against me, keeping me immobile.  
A felt her breath a third time. I squirmed but she was much too 
strong for me. Then the burning stopped, replaced by a dull ache 
which also faded after a few minutes. Her weight sh ifted, and her 
breath tickled gently on my neck as she peered closely at the knot.  
"That’s  much better". She lifted herself off me and sat on her 
haunches.  
I reached a hand to the back of my head and the bruise from 
earlier was gone. It was still a little tender, but the swelling had 
subsided.  
"See, magic. " She gave me that odd, slightly menacing look that 
dragons had when they attempted to mimic a smile.  
I sat up, the dizziness gone. "Well, let’s get back. If Lewon sent 
word about my concussion, the entire  camp will be searching for us." 
I leapt onto her back, feeling more energy than I had since being 
exiled from the castle.  
We broke through the treetops just in time to catch Lewon and 
Calen rising up from the camp. They spotted us and circled above 
until we approached for our landing. Lewon was on his feet and at 
my side as I slid from Farean’s back.  
131  Ash Rober ts 
 "You got rid of the firerock already?" I asked him.  
"You’ve been gone over an hour. What happened? Are you okay?"  
"I’m fine. I had some, uh, private business to attend to." The lie 
came surprisingly easily, and I felt a little bad. But I wanted to know 
more about Farean’s magical revelation before I told anyone.  
"Go see the healer." Lewon gently pushed me towards the low 
building where the healer worked. "I wil l take care of your harness 
and Farean."  
I shook my head, thankful it didn’t hurt or make me dizzy. "No, I 
really am fine. The flight back did the trick."  
He looked at me and sighed. "If you say so. But I’ll make sure 
Esgeril checks on you later."  
I ignored his comment while I unbuckled Farean’s harness. If I 
could reveal Farean’s secret to anyone it would be Esgeril. Through 
her family history, she would know if something like this had 
happened before. I turned my attention back to Lewon. "I really a m 
okay, but do what you must."  
He nodded and left without another word.  
I went the opposite direction.  
Florian and her crew sat outside the girl’s barracks as usual. She 
tried to block my path as I approached, but I dug my heel into her 
foot. I wasn’t stro ng enough to hurt her, but it surprised her enough 
to create the opening I needed to push past her into the building.  
Shortly after I got back to my room, Esgeril knocked on the door. 
"How did it go? I want all the juicy details." She smiled and collapsed 
on the straw mattress by my window.  
"Well, I have a lot to learn," I said. "Farean is a natural in the air. 
Good enough that I’m holding her back. But Lewon gave me some 
good bruises today."  
She laughed. "I don’t know why we need to learn how to wield the 
blade. They don’t do any good from dragon -back. I’m glad Baran’s 
red, so I can use the crossbow dad trained me on. Did you see the 
healer? She’ll have an ointment to help with the bruising."  
Royal Dragoneer   132 
 "Actually, I have a question for you. What you know about healing  
magic?"  
"Healing magic?" She shook her head. "Don’t waste your time 
worrying about that. Nobody has any magic worth talking about."  
I frowned. "What about what Baran told Farean? About dragons 
channeling magic and focusing our powers?"  
"I broke my arm the  day after the hatching." She lifted her left arm 
and flexed it, then dropped it back to her side. "The cast came off 
just before we left for here. Maybe Dragoneers heal a few days 
quicker than normal folks. Could be dragon magic, or just that we’re 
mostly  tough people."  
I looked away, wondering what to say. How did you bring up 
magic when someone didn’t believe in it?  
"So, by the look on your face, I’d guess something happened?" she 
said. "Tell me."  
"I hit my head my head pretty hard during training. Hard enough 
to worry Lewon, so he cut our session short. He’s going to ask you to 
keep an eye on me later, just so you know. Anyway, on the way back 
to the healer, Farean got worried. Then she said that thing about 
magic that Baran told her and insisted she cou ld heal me. Started 
spouting nonsense about a dragon king." I turned my head and 
parted my hair. "I couldn’t see what was going on, but it burned and 
then it stopped throbbing and felt better." I turned back to an open -
mouthed Esgeril. "She said I had stro ng magic. But I’ve never 
noticed anything like that before."  
Esgeril sat there gaping at me, at a complete loss for words.  
"Please don’t tell anyone," I begged. "I’m enough of a freak here 
already."  
Her expression softened. "You’re not a freak. You just do n’t know 
anything." She broke into a smile. "At all. About anything. And I’ve 
never heard of dragon magic working like that. But I’ll have a chat 
with Baran and see what he says, about both you and Farean. We 
could even look in the camp archives and see if  they mention 
anything similar. But, yeah, I wouldn’t bring up dragon magic with 
133  Ash Rober ts 
 anyone until we know more or could prove something. Maybe your 
injury wasn’t as bad as you thought it was. You can’t see the back of 
your own head, you know?"  
"I know," I gave  her a friendly shove, and she rolled backward and 
off the bed with wild exaggerated motions, as if I had the strength to 
bowl her over. "See, I know that much," I insisted. "Actually, I know 
plenty. Just not anything useful." I laughed, and she let out on e of her 
signature snorts. "Now help me learn something useful so I can get 
out of my punishment sooner."  

 
 
 
I brought my sword up to block the blow just inches from my 
head. The force knocked me backwards and I dropped to a knee. 
"Hold," I called. I huffed as I supported my weight on the pommel 
of the practice blade. After several months of training now, I was 
getting better, but Lewon still usually bested me.  
"Goblins won’t give you a chance to catch your brea th," he said. 
He held out his hand, and I used it to pull myself up.  
"I know, but you will." I smiled, sheathing my blade. I wandered 
over to a stream near where it fed into the lake and scooped some 
cool water in my hands, washing away the worst of the di rt and sweat 
that caked my face.  
Looking up, a saw a glint of red, under the shade of a nearby tree. 
I’d only seen it once, but Lewon made enough of an impression 
about its danger that I’d always recognize firerock at a glance now.  
"Tell him". Farean’s voice distracted me as it echoed in my head as 
she glided lazily in the air currents above.  
"What does she want you to tell me?" Lewon prodded.  
I turned to see him wading waist high in the lake with a sharpened 
stick aimed at the surface. He kept his eyes glued on the fish darting 
between his legs, not bothering to look up when he asked the 
question.  
"You know, that gets a bit old. What’s the point of having secret 
telepathic conversations with my dragon if Calen just repeats them to 
you," I teased.  
He laug hed. "When dragons are involved, there is no privacy. So, 
you might as well tell me." He moved toward me in the water, his we 
shirt and pants clinging to his body in a very distracting way.  
Royal Dragoneer   136 
 He wasn’t going to give up, it seemed. I wondered if that meant he  
had some inkling already. "Well," I said, hesitant but determined, "I 
noticed that a lot of the male and female Dragoneers have paired off. 
Florian is already spreading rumors about us based on our training 
sessions. I was wondering if there was anyone yo u…" My voice 
trailed off as I got closer to asking the question.  
He smiled. The same sly little grin that he had shown me so many 
times in the past few weeks. And that grin alone fueled my hope. But 
he didn’t say anything. He just stared at me, wading clos er to me on 
the shoreline and waiting for me to go on.  
So, I did. "I’m only asking because. Well, because. I like you. And 
I can’t ignore that anymore. I like you. It scares me. But I need to 
know if you feel the same way." I let out a long unsteady breath . 
There. I’d said it. The flag was in his possession now.  
He walked right up and stood over me —still with that same 
cheeky grin and only the sound of water dripping off of him. His 
spear floated in the lake behind him, forgotten. The seconds ticked 
by as w e stood like that, close but not touching, my head just below 
his chin line so I could see the pulse jumping in his neck. It seemed 
to be jumping very quickly. I knew mine sure was. I was hoping he 
would kiss me, but instead he raised his hand, brushing my  sweaty 
hair from my cheek.  
"Training’s not the place for this," he said gently "It wouldn’t be 
right. I’m your teacher."  
I felt like the wind had been knocked out of me. I blinked, trying 
to understand.  
"That’s enough of a break. Back to training." He hel d out his 
hand. I felt like collapsing to the ground, screaming in frustration, 
and going off to hide all at once. Instead, I assumed the stance he 
had shown me. He attacked and I let my frustration fueled my 
moves. I deflected a series of thrusts, holding  my own for much 
longer than I had previously.  
Finally, he passed my guard and knocked me to the ground. I 
rolled and used the momentum to lift me back to my feet. This time I 
137  Ash Rober ts 
 went on the attack. Lewon blinked but raised his sword to block. He 
let me try s everal more times, but I never came close to landing a 
blow.  
He switched back to offense, landing several more touches while I 
managed to stay on my feet. He feinted, and while I was distracted by 
his sword he swept my knees with his leg. I landed on my ba ck and 
he pressed the blunted point of his weapon against my chest.  
He withdrew the point, sheathing the sword and extending his 
hand instead. Kalia," he said my name softly, like a caress. "Get 
cleaned up and meet me at the stables an hour before the dinn er 
bell."  
I gulped twice before I was able to ask hopefully, "You mean for a 
date?"  
Again, he only responded with a smile. That grin made my heart 
flutter and infuriated me at the same time. Why couldn’t he just give 
me a straight answer for once?  
He walke d past me, water cascading off his body, and went to put 
our practice equipment away.  
I clambered onto Farean’s back, but then remember something. 
"I’m still under my punishment," I reminded him. "I can’t leave the 
camp."  
He dismissed my concern with a wav e of his hand, not bothering 
to look up from his work. "I already cleared it with Authand. Don’t 
worry."  
He had cleared it with Authand? That meant he’d planned 
something for us before I’d even broached the question. My heart 
leapt just as Farean leapt int o the sky.  
"I told you to ask him, "she said. " You humans  make mating  way too 
complicated. " 
She wasn’t wrong.  
Back at the stables, I made record time removing her saddle, 
giving it only the most cursory of cleanings before putting it away. I 
found Esgeril in the central Pavilion. "Come on, I need your help." I 
Royal Dragoneer   138 
 grabbed her arm without stopping and pulled her to her feet, nearly 
over balancing her.  
"What’s the matter?"  
"Nothing, for a change.  But I do have a date." I doubled our pace 
until we were just short of a run. "And I have no clue what to wear. 
Help me go through my trunk from home. I’m finally going to have a 
chance to wear a dress again."  
I barely noticed Esgeril shut the door behind her when we entered 
my room. I ran straight for the trunk, tossing the lid open with 
enough force to rock it. I started pulling garments out.  
"Do you think I should go with the blue dress to match Farean’s 
scales or the green to match Calen?" I held the tw o up, so she could 
compare.  
"Neither." Esgeril shook her head. "Goblins have been spotted in 
the woods, and Colonel Authand has grounded everyone. No one is 
allowed leave camp."  
"No, that can’t be right. Lewon said he’d cleared it."  
"I don’t know what " Lewon" told you, but the Colonel was 
adamant. You can’t leave."  
I crossed the small room with two quick steps and stood over her. 
"Are you making this up? Why are you ruining this? Are you 
jealous?" I demanded.  
"Jealous?" She scoffed, placing her hands on her  hips and staring 
defiantly at me. "Why would I make up a lie? It’s easy enough to 
check. Just go ask the Colonel."  
"I don’t have time for that. And you know the Colonel hates me. 
He’d probably ground me no matter what, just on principle." I 
turned away fr om her, almost in tears. "Why can’t you just be happy 
for me? Finally, somebody accepts me for who I really am, and I get 
to do something for myself. Since the hatching, every decision has 
been about Farean."  
"Oh, poor you," she said sarcastically. "Poor p retty princess born 
with a golden spoon in her mouth. Now you finally find out what it 
means to live for someone other than yourself, and you run into the 
139  Ash Rober ts 
 arms of the first boy who smirks at you. Your independence is just 
something you pretend to have unti l someone comes along to take 
care of you."  
That struck a little too close to home. I narrowed my eyes as I 
exhaled out my nose. I leaned forward, close enough that my breath 
toyed with a stray lock that lay across her forehead. "Get out of my 
room," I his sed. 
Esgeril held her ground as we glared at each other. She 
sidestepped around me and grabbed the door knob. Opening it, she 
spoke in a low voice. "Lewon is up to something. You can’t trust 
him. Don’t say that I didn’t warn you." Then she was gone, leavin g 
me to my own thoughts.  
"Kalia"," what’s  wrong?  "Farean called from the stables, sensing my 
distress.  
"Be quiet. I’m fine." I waved her off even though she couldn’t see 
me. 
I looked down at the two dresses and grabbed the green one. Etlin 
had always said green suited me.  
Thinking of him didn’t bring the twinge of pain it once had. In 
fact, it had been weeks since he’d even crossed my mind. I’d been so 
devastated when he left me. Was Esgeril right about my 
independence? Was it just something I put on like a  pretty dress to 
attract someone new to take care of me? No, that wasn’t fair. I had 
grown leaps and bounds since I’d come to camp. I did everything for 
myself and I was a good Dragoneer. Being independent didn’t mean 
you couldn’t have friends or boyfriend s. You could still want and 
have those relationships. You just didn’t need them desperately or 
lose yourself in them. But would I lose myself in Lewon? Well, there 
was only one way to find out.  

 
 
 
I brushed my hands through my pony tail as I walked to the 
stables. I had hoped Esgeril would braid my hair for me, but I would 
have to make do with what I had done looking into the barrack’s 
washroom mirror. If I missed even one strand, it whipped painfully 
in my face  when I flew. It was probably why many of the female 
riders cut their hair short like boys.  
At this late hour, the stables were deserted. The other Dragoneers 
had finished their classes for the day and mealtime for the dragons 
started earlier than ours. A few slumbered in their berths. Farean 
shouldn’t be eating; she knew we would be flying tonight, but she 
was absent. I opened my storage locker retrieve Farean’s harness 
from its storage trunk before calling her back.  
"You won’t need that." I jumped at the sound of Lewon’s voice. I 
turned around, my heart pounding in my chest.  
"I thought we were flying somewhere," I said, trying not to show 
my disappointment. Was this all just a set -up again?  
He saw my discomfort and shook his head. "Farean gets a break 
tonight. We’ll ride together on Calen. You’ll just have to hook onto 
me." He gave a little half turn and pointed to a D -ring at the small of 
his back that I hadn’t noticed before.  
I followed him to Calen’s stable and stood back as Lewon 
harnessed his dragon and climbed onto its back. Once secure, he held 
out his hand to me.  
I hesitated. I’d been training for three months, but I’d never 
touched a dragon who wasn’t Farean, let alone ridden one.  
Lewon shook his arm, breaking me from my thoughts.  
Royal Dragoneer   142 
 I grabbed his ha nd and climbed on. The buckles snapped into 
place easily, pulling me very snuggly into Lewon’s back. Calen took 
two steps, and we were airborne.  
One of the first things I noticed was that we were not flying in the 
direction of the village where Esgeril’s a unt owned her shop. I 
considered bringing that up, but it was hard to talk on a dragon. And 
I didn’t want him to think I didn’t trust him.  
The wind buffeted me, pushing me back and forth. A gust 
knocked my grip loose and my buckles tensed against Lewon’s b ack 
pulling him askew as well.  
I grabbed at his shoulders, making it more difficult for him to hold 
onto the harness.  
He grasped Calen’s neck ridge and pulled himself forward in the 
saddle.  
I pried my fingers around the saddle’s edge and pulled myself back  
as well.  
"Hold on," he shouted over his shoulder.  
"I’m trying."  
"No." The wind made it difficult to hear, but there was no 
mistaking his growl of frustration. "Hold on to " me". I don’t want 
you pulling me back again."  
"Oh." The sound was lost in the wind as I tried to decide where to 
put my hands.  
Still holding on to the dragon’s neck with one arm, Lewon reached 
around and yanked my hands to his chest. I took the hint and 
wrapped my arms around his body. Calen rode an air current higher, 
and I instinctivel y pressed myself closer to Lewon. He was so warm. 
And I could feel the beating of his heart, his chest expanding and 
contracting with each breath. The heat he radiated was helping 
protect me against the chill of the air flowing past. This was much 
more int imate than I’d ever been with Etlin. I felt flush and was 
grateful for the fact that Lewon couldn’t see my reaction, or my face.  
I recalled my conversation with Esgeril on how casually 
Dragoneers viewed romantic relationships, especially those from the 
143  Ash Rober ts 
 West like where Lewon was from. That was enough to jolt me back 
to reality, and I pulled away from him a little but kept my arms 
around his chest with the lightest of grips.  
We rode in silence until white smoke appeared on the horizon. We 
made our way towards  it, and an assortment of stone and wood 
buildings came into view surrounded by a crude stone wall. Judging 
by its size and location, I guessed this was Suzu, Darneta’s second 
largest city.  
We had traveled there once when I was a child. My father took a 
comprehensive yearlong tour of the kingdom every five years of his 
rule. It helped the outlands feel connected to their king and showed 
that he cared about their lives.  
The dragon pavilion here was not so grand as it had been at 
Esgeril’s village. Further fr om the training grounds, I guessed it didn’t 
receive as much dragon traffic as the smaller town. We landed and 
deposited our harnesses in a locker before I excused myself in search 
of a mirror to fix my hair before anyone noticed how messy it had 
come.  
When I returned from the pavilion’s washroom, I found Lewon 
leaning against a pillar at the exit. He saw me and straightened, 
holding his left arm out. I took it awkwardly. Esgeril had taken to my 
righthandedness gracefully and stood on the other side to 
accommodate me. Why was I comparing Lewon to her? I took 
Lewon’s arm with more vigor than I intended, forcing the strange 
thoughts away. He couldn’t help it if he was used to most people 
being left -handed.  
Lewon led me to a dim public house with sparse candles  providing 
the only illumination. Despite the crude outward appearance, the 
owner was well dressed and led us to our table without a word. I 
perused the menu, which further showed the establishment to be 
more upscale than the average tavern, and ordered.  
Lewon spoke after the owner was out of earshot. "I know this 
isn’t as posh as the capital or the castle, but I figured you would enjoy 
a change from the camp’s cafeteria."  
Royal Dragoneer   144 
 Without the stress of training or traveling across Goblin -infested 
roads, we fell int o an easy conversation. I thought I had gotten to 
know Lewon pretty well, but I hadn’t even scratched the surface. I 
barely noticed my meal, tasty but forgettable, as the conversation 
progressed. I wished we could stay there forever.  
But then two pale -skinned men sidled up to our booth and slid 
onto the benches next to us. I was so startled, I didn’t know what to 
say. The tavern wasn’t full. There were other places to sit. And I 
hadn’t seen many, but their black hair and red eyes told me they were 
Nightbloo ds. The one next to me opened his mouth to speak, 
providing further proof with a flash of his teeth, sharpened to fanged 
points.  
"Where’s our money, Lewon?" he said, staring at me hungrily. 
"Roland doesn’t like it when his runecube players don’t pay."  
"Runecubes?" I squeaked. "Those are illegal."  
The Nightblood elbowed me. "Still, you’re boyfriend here has a 
weakness for them. He owes the boss a stoneweight." He grinned, 
showing his fangs again.  
It would take a Dragoneer four years to earn that much.  
"Lewon, how could you lose so much money?" I asked.  
"Because Roland cheats." He banged his fist on the table.  
With a Nightblood’s fabled reflexes, the one next to me grabbed 
Lewon’s hand. "Careful, boy. Roland has been patient with you till 
now, but he won’t  wait any longer. Don’t make this harder on 
yourself."  
"I have his money, Bior," Lewon said.  
"You do?" The Nightblood and I said in unison.  
"Yes. Well, the next best thing." He pointed at me. "Boys, meet 
Princess Kalia of Darneta."  
Both the Nightbloods sta red at me as I stared at Lewon. This 
couldn’t be happening. He wouldn’t do this. Who would do this?  
"I don’t have any more money than he does," I told the 
Nightblood called Bior.  
145  Ash Rober ts 
 In response, he reached out and grabbed my wrist, holding it 
tightly enough t o elicit a yelp. "No, but your father does."  
Realization of what he planned hit me, and I fought against his 
grasp.  
"Are we good, Bior?" Lewon asked, without looking at me.  
Bior stood, pulling me with him. "Yes, this will be sufficient to 
relieve your debt s. Should Roland expect you at the runecube table 
next weekend?"  
Lewon pushed his way past Bior’s companion. "Of course. It will 
be nice to see Roland owing me money for a change."  
"Lewon," I hissed. "Don’t do this."  
"It’s not personal, Kalia." Lewon said,  though I noticed wouldn’t 
look me in the eye. "It’s just business."  
And then he turned and left the restaurant without looking back.  

 
 
 
The unnamed Nightblood took my left arm and the two leeches 
dragged me towa rds the exit. I tried to search for the proprietor, but 
he was conspicuously absent.  
Outside, a light mist coated everything, and a wolf cowered under 
a nearby tree, wrapped in silver chains. It wasn’t just any wolf, 
judging by the size. A wolf that big ha d to be a wolf -shifter.  
The Nightbloods led me to the animal and pushed me over its 
back. They untied the end of the chain from the tree and wrapped it 
around my wrists. Bior prodded the poor creature and it walked into 
the woods on some unseen trail, the Nightbloods flanking us on each 
side. 
With each step the wolf -shifter took, the chains tugged at my 
wrists. Within a mile, the skin had been rubbed raw and my blood 
matted the animal’s fur. But I barely felt the pain. It was nothing 
compared to how badly m y heart hurt. I had trusted Lewon. I had 
actually thought he liked me. How could I have been such a fool 
again? First there had been Etlin, who had at least dumped me, 
instead of selling me to pay his debts. And now this. Did I have 
absolutely no sense of who people really were? Was I that blind and 
naive? Maybe Esgeril was right, and I was just a person who wanted 
someone else to take care of me. Well, there was no one to take care 
of me now. I was going to have to get out of this on my own. Which 
wouldn’t  be easy chained to the back of a wolf with only a view of 
the ground.  
"You should let me go know." I said with more bravery than I felt, 
craning my neck to see Bior. "It will go poorly for you otherwise,"  
Royal Dragoneer   148 
 "Oh, yeah?  Why is that?" Bior laughed. "Your father won’t risk 
you getting hurt. He will pay the ransom."  
I wasn’t as sure of that as he was, but admitting it wouldn’t help 
my cause. I knew Farean could hear me from a distance. When the 
Goblins had ambushed Lewon an d I on the road back to the swine 
farm, she’d flown to my rescue. But that had only been a few miles 
distance. Suzu was at least twenty miles from camp. Maybe more. 
"Farean,  I need you." I called earnestly in my head. " I’m in trouble.  Come  
help me. "Farean  was the one creature in this world I knew I could 
trust without fail. Not because I needed her, but because we needed 
each other. We had that unbreakable bond the Dragoneeers were 
always going on about.  
"You do know I’m a Dragoneer, right?" I told my capt ors. "My 
dragon will find me."  
"Oh, good," Bior said cheerily. The other one wasn’t much of a 
talker, it seemed. "Roland always has use for more dragons."  
"She wouldn’t follow him, because I won’t."  
"Roland will have no reason to keep you after the ransom is paid. 
He’ll find your dragon a rider more amenable to our cause."  
"That’s not possible," I reminded him "A dragon is bonded for 
life." 
"Is that what the Dragoneers told you?" He gave a full belly laugh. 
"You’re more naive than I thought, if you believe that."  
"What are you talking about?" I cried. "Can the dragon bond be 
broken?"  
"There is a witch, Ascatie," Bior said. "She lives in the North 
where wild dragons still roam. It is said she can perform the rite. This 
is what will be done to you and your dra gon if you call it here to 
rescue you."  
"No," I whispered. Meanwhile I was frantically telling Farean in 
my head. " Farean, " "listen to me." "Don’t  come. It isn’t safe for you. Stay 
away.  That’s  an order. " 
149  Ash Rober ts 
 I felt —something —this time. A sensation just on th e cusp of my 
awareness. Anger. No, fear and rage. Farean was getting closer. She 
was coming after me.  
In a panic, I squirmed against my bonds, grinding my injured 
wrists into the wolf’s shoulder.  
It growled, low in its throat, the vibration breaking the st ill of the 
night.  
"Quiet, Meril," Bior hissed at it. "Roland won’t release your pups 
if you get us caught."  
Meril whimpered and then became quiet. She picked up her pace, 
no doubt eager to be relieved of her load and returned to her family. 
The two Nightbl oods kept up easily, appearing for all the world as if 
the wolf’s trot was slowing them down. Maybe my parents would pay 
the ransom that Roland would demand. I had no idea.  
But I had to keep Farean away. Or at least warn her what to 
expect and not to come flying into a trap. " Farean ", I called again. 
"They know you’re  coming.  It’s a trap." "Be on guard.  Think  before you act." I 
kept trying to contact her as we crossed mile after nameless mile.  
The Nightbloods seemed agitated by our slow progress and 
conferr ed between themselves as the moons rose in the sky. "This is 
taking too long," Bior told his companion. "The wolf is weary, and 
the girl is heavy. I can move faster on my own and will go on ahead 
to tell Roland we have a prize." He tugged at the chain for good 
measure, and Meril and I both cried out in pain. Then, faster than I 
could blink, he disappeared into the night. The other Nightblood led 
the way in silence. He had not said a word since he’d sat down next 
to that traitorous Lewon, hours before.  
The d ragon moon set and then Kingsmoon, leaving just the red 
blood moon illuminating the path. I wasn’t superstitious but, given 
how the night was going, I shivered at the ill omen a lone blood 
moon conveyed.  
Despite the pain in my arms and back, my exhaustion eventually 
overtook me. I woke to see dawn peaking over the horizon as my 
Nightblood captor unwound my chains and pulled me from the back 
Royal Dragoneer   150 
 of Meril. A small stone home sat alone in the woods, the dawn -facing 
windows shut tight. No smoke rose from the chimne y. At first, I 
thought that meant the building was unoccupied, but then I realized 
that Nightbloods needed no fire for warmth or food.  
Bior opened the door at our arrival and waved us in, the silent 
Nightblood dragging me by my arm and Meril by her chains.  The 
door shut loudly behind us, and I turned to see him turn several large 
bolts as big around as my arm. A third Nightblood, portly by their 
standards, sat at an oak table counting stacks of money.  
"Did my father pay the ransom?" I asked hopefully. Meanw hile, 
Bior stuffed Meril into a cage that looked much too small for her. 
The other one pushed me roughly into a chair and wrapped me in a 
rope almost faster than I could see.  
"Why, my dear," replied the Nightblood who must be Roland, 
"this is just what my runecube clubs brought in last night. It’s not a 
tenth of what I will demand from your father." The Nightblood 
Change made it difficult to tell, but his head seemed not quite right 
and his skin had a greyer tone than the alabaster of his companions.  
"You’r e a Goblin," I gasped in realization.  
"I’m a Nightblood!" He brought his fist down on the table, 
cracking the wood in half. The gold and silver coins scattered across 
the room. A silver piece rolled into Meril’s cage. She jumped when it 
touched her, sending her into the bars, cowering and cringing away 
from it.  
"Never mention what a Nightblood was before," Roland said, 
coming around the table and grabbing me by the chin with his cold 
hand. "It is the rudest possible insult to our kind, and I’ve killed  
others for much less." He let go of my chin but kept his face close to 
mine. "Just be thankful you are worth so much, or you’d already be 
dead." His breath smelled of blood, warm and metallic. "Bior, pick 
up this mess." He waved his hand at the money on t he floor. "The 
sun is up, and I must go and rest."  
He left through a door in the back, though I got no details of the 
room or space beyond. It was too dark.  
151  Ash Rober ts 
 Bior and the other Nightblood, whose name I still didn’t know, 
stooped down and started picking up the money. The nameless one 
reached for the coin in Meril’s cage, and she snapped at him, earning 
her cage an angry kick. The Nightblood’s strength sent it rolling. She 
shrieked as she tumbled with it, and then lay there whimpering, but 
not moving, when it  stopped.  
These Nightbloods had no mercy. What would they do to Farean 
if she came? What would they do to me if she didn’t?  
Bior and his companion finished putting the scattered money back 
on the table. When they were done, the silent one cocked his head 
and went to the small window. He peered through it and grabbed a 
crossbow and some bolts hanging from a hook on the wall. He went 
back to the window, crouching down.  
Bior followed suit, grabbing another weapon from the wall. He 
took a position at a slit on the other side of the door.  
"Who is out there?" I asked them. Was it my father’s men or my 
dragon? " Farean,  if you’re  here, it’s a trap. The house is full of Nightbloods,  
and they have crossbows.  Be careful. " 
"Be quiet!" Bior barked.  
I obeyed, straining to  sense Farean’s presence or her thoughts, but 
I got nothing.  
Bior’s companion took aim with his bow and fired.  
"Careful," Bior warned him. "We don’t know how many there. 
Conserve our ammunition. Wait until you can see them clearly."  
"I thaw moothement," th e other Nightblood lisped.  
That was why he hadn’t spoken. I had heard of such things before, 
stories the maids told each other at night. In the human kingdom of 
Facal, they cut out the tongues of their remedial criminals, those who 
had committed an offense  not quite worthy of the death penalty. And 
when Nightbloods Changed, their bodies gained the ability to 
regenerate, even parts that had previously been removed. It was said 
the blood they drank did that. But that regeneration could take some 
time. This Ni ghtblood must be so young his tongue hadn’t yet 
completely grown back.  
Royal Dragoneer   152 
 Bior focused on the slit before him, attempting to find what had 
roused the other’s attention. I couldn’t see what they were seeing, but 
they both suddenly started shooting frantically,  barely taking the time 
to aim before firing.  
I heard a sound, maybe a growl or the beating of wings.  
Bior dropped his crossbow and retreated to the room where 
Roland had retired.  
The other Nightblood kept firing.  
Mortar dust and crumbled stone started rai ning down from the 
ceiling, and I ducked under Roland’s money table for protection.  
A hole opened up in the roof as more stone and debris came 
crashing down.  
Farean snaked her head through the hole and grabbed the lisping 
Nightblood in her jaws, shaking hi m back and forth before releasing 
him into the far wall.  
He slumped to the floor and didn’t move.  
"I’m here", Farean said. " And that man tasted  nasty. " 
 
 
 
"Farean!"  I cried, scanning as much of her as I could through the 
hole in the ceiling. I didn’t see any bolts sticking out of her hide. She 
was safe. I was safe.  
"Of course,  you’re  safe." Farean said, so confident in herself" . I would  
never let anyone  harm you. Oh, and I brought  the boss man." 
Colonel Authand entered the home through the door, rather than 
the dragon -sized hole in roof. He looked me over with a faint nod of 
his head, assessing the battle damage nonchalantly as if he’d done it a 
thousand times before.  Which he probably had.  
He seemed content that I was safe and rushed for the rear door, 
his short sword drawn in front of him. He threw it open, revealing a 
dark room with an open door on its back wall, open to the dim 
woods beyond. He searched the now emp ty room and came back 
into the main one just as two other Dragoneers came in the front 
door.  
"The outside is secure, sir," one of them said. Three vertical bars 
under his Dragon pin indicated he was in his third and final year of 
training. His sandy brown hair was trimmed close to his head, and his 
demeanor seemed closer to that of my father’s guards than what I 
was used to in the Dragoneers.  
"Well, they escaped out the back," Authand said. "Search again; 
they must have a secret passage somewhere. Farean, h ave a fly 
around and see if you notice anything from the air."  
"Yes, sir. "My dragon said like an obedient soldier, as she flapped 
her wings and took off from the roof, sending dust billowing down 
into the room.  
Royal Dragoneer   154 
 When the air had cleared, Authand sheathed his sword and pulled 
a small dagger from his belt. The other two Dragoneers back outside 
and headed in different directions. Authand cut through the ropes 
that bound me. I rubbed my bleeding wrists, wincing at the raw flesh.  
I knelt next to Meril’s cage. " We need to let her out. She is a 
prisoner here too."  
"She’s a Wolf -shifter, girl. And a badly treated one at that. Be 
careful she doesn’t bite the hand that feeds her."  
I ignored his warning, and opened the door to her cage, but Meril 
cringed at the back. I crawled halfway in. "It’s okay, we’re going to 
help you." I took another crawling move forward, and she snapped at 
me. I jumped back.  
"If you bite her, I’ll bite you, "I heard Farean say. But she wasn’t 
talking to me. She was talking to Meril, who cocked  her head and 
looked up through the hole in the roof, trembling.  
I use the distraction to lunge forward and pull the chain off her. 
Her demeanor changed immediately. She took a step towards me, but 
it did not seem threatening. I backed out of the cage, and  she 
followed me into the room. Once clear, she began to shift.  
Her snout pulled into her face and her legs straightened and 
lengthened. Fur dissolved into golden brown skin. Within moments, 
she returned to the form of a woman around thirty and attempted t o 
cover her nakedness with her arms.  
Authand went into the back room and returned with breaches and 
a coat that were both several sizes too large for her. He tossed them 
to her and turned away. She slipped into the pants, but they were so 
large that she co uld not keep them up. I gave her a length of the rope 
that had bound me, and she cinched it around her waist, then slid on 
the coat.  
She looked lost in it, but she tapped on the Colonel’s shoulder. 
"Thank you," she said when he turned. She eyed the corpse of the 
lisping Nightblood lying against the wall and turned her attention to 
me. "And thank you. They’ve kept me in wolf form for months, 
155  Ash Rober ts 
 doing their bidding. But I must find them. They still have my pups 
hidden somewhere. I have to find them."  
Authand nod ded. "The other two Dragoneers will stay behind and 
help you."  
She shook her head. "I appreciate the offer, but I can cover more 
ground on my own. And the Nightbloods will stay hidden as long as 
they can see or smell dragons."  
"Well, if there is anything w e can do," Authand said, "you can find 
us at Tulta to the East."  
"I will remember both of you," she said, bowing and turning 
toward the door, her nose sniffing the air. And then she was gone, 
springing into the woods like she was still in wolf form.  
"I didn’t find the other stinky  men", Farean said, sticking her huge head 
in the doorway.  
"It’s okay," I told her. " You saved my life today.  I’m so proud  of you." 
"And she should have never had to," Authand said, turning to me 
angrily. "What were you thinking, l eaving camp again without 
permission while you were still under punishment from the last time. 
Get on your dragon right now, a dragon you most certainly don’t 
deserve, and go straight back to camp, or I’ll sever the two of you 
myself."  
So, it could be done. Not that I ever wanted it to be. But why had 
everyone lied to me about everything?  
"What are you waiting for?" Authand barked.  
"I don’t have her harness," I sputtered.  
He marched outside, and I followed. He reached into a bag 
strapped to his dragon K orth’s back and retrieved Farean’s harness. 
"Lewon could not find your leathers," he said, handing it to me.  
"Lewon?" I asked, my voice rising. "Lewon knows exactly where 
my leathers are. They’re with his at the Pavilion in Suzu. Right where 
he left me." M y fists clenched, and Farean butted me with her snout, 
letting out a low growl.  
"Don’t try to blame this on him. He’s been at the camp since you 
disappeared," Authand said, reaching into a pouch on Korth’s side 
Royal Dragoneer   156 
 and pulling out a pair of leathers I recogniz ed as Esgeril’s. They 
wouldn’t fit, but they’d be close enough to get me home.  
I put them on, Farean fawning over me and making it harder. Her 
thoughts were an incoherent jumble. Most strongly, she seemed 
happy that I was safe, angry that I’d been captured , and sad that I’d 
abandoned her. This last one shocked me. " I didn’t  abandon  you. "I 
assured her" . I thought  I was going on a date. But it was a trap. Lewon  lied 
and turned  me over to the stinky  men. And now he’s back at camp pretending  he 
had nothing  to do with it." 
"Bad Lewon,  "she said. " I warned  you he doesn’t  smell right." 
"I know.  I should  have listened  to you. I’m sorry. "I stroked her snout 
with one hand, using her for balance as I pulled the leggings on, 
awkwardly, over my dress, then attached mys elf to the harness. If it 
was my word against Lewon’s concerning what had happened, who 
would people believe? It looked like Authand already believed 
Lewon. That wasn’t a good sign.  
Even now, Authand was standing next to Korth, his arms crossed 
and his foo t tapping impatiently. "You will follow me back," he said. 
"If you deviate from our flight path at all, Korth will force you to the 
ground and you will walk back to the camp. Is that clear?"  
I nodded and gulped.  
He mounted Korth, and I mounted Farean, hook ing in and 
following them into the sky. There was no conversation on the flight 
back.  
The sun reached its zenith as we landed. My stomach gurgled as 
the sounds and smells of the noon meal wafted from the mess hall. I 
hadn’t eaten for a long time and looked  longingly in that direction; 
but Authand pointed at me with his hook and said, "My office. 
Now."  
I made my best time ever removing Farean’s harness and trotted 
after him. Walking was awkward with my gown bunched up under 
the leggings. Every time I fell be hind, he stopped and glared until I 
caught up. At his office, the aide held the door open. As soon as I 
passed through, he left, closing the door behind us.  
157  Ash Rober ts 
 I’d been warned to avoid Authand’s wrath, but I seemed incapable 
of doing so. In fact, I appeared t o be a wrath -magnet. The Colonel 
waited until I entered his office and then slammed the door with 
enough force to shake the room.  
"What were you thinking?" He thundered, pacing the room in 
front of me. "I’ve seen a lot of new Dragoneers make very stupid an d 
dangerous mistakes, but this has got to take the cake. What did you 
do to attract the attention of someone as dangerous as Roland? 
You’re not playing runecubes, are you?"  
"No," I blurted. Without meaning to, I spread my arms wide, 
nearly sending my hand into his chest. "It was Lewon. He tricked 
me." 
"He tricked you into running off by yourself?"  
"He took me to Suzu for dinner. He said we had your 
permission."  
"Do you think I’m stupid?" That terrible claw thunked into the 
desk as he passed it. "Nobody had permission to leave until we were 
forced to go off on a wild dragon -chase looking for you. Lewon led 
the search until we found Farean flying by herself. Do you have any 
idea how dangerous these woods are for a lost young dragon right 
now?"  
"But—I—" I wante d to protest that Lewon had lied to him —that 
he’d sold me off without a thought for my well -being. But the words 
just wouldn’t come. I’d struggled all night with the fact that I’d 
poured my heart out to Lewon, and he used that very fact in a plan to 
barter  me for his illegal debts. Then he’d pretended to look for me —
to be the caring hero who’d lost the girl he was falling for. That was a 
level of deviousness that both scared and startled me. Lewon would 
not go down without a fight. If I accused him, I might  very well lose 
that battle. Badly. I was not anyone’s favorite at training camp, and 
he clearly was. Obviously, I would have to play this differently, like 
one of my father’s diplomatic negotiations. I was the little kingdom 
with no army. That meant I had  to bide my time and find something 
to bargain with.  
Royal Dragoneer   158 
 So, I hung my head as Authand continued his tirade, but I was no 
longer listening. I was pondering a plan —a way to get my revenge on 
Lewon that he would never see coming. I would show Authand, and 
Floria n, and Esgeril, and all the other Dragoneers what I was really 
made of. I was tired of having one foot in princess world, and one in 
Dragoneer world. If I wanted this life, I was going to have to grab it 
for myself. No one was going to hand it to me.  
"This  is your last chance, Kalia." Authand said, winding down. "If 
you’re caught leaving this camp again without permission, it will be 
the Dragon Caves for you."  
I gulped. The threat had more weight now. I’d only known it was 
a prison before. But from my class es I’d learned the guards were only 
there to prevent the criminals from escaping. There were no guards 
or rules inside the Caves.  
"You should also be aware that Roland never releases his 
hostages," Authand added. "He collects the ransom and kills them. 
And us rescuing you is going to be very bad for his reputation. His 
spies will be on the lookout for you. If you’re ever allowed to l eave 
camp grounds again, which I highly doubt, your life will be in 
constant danger. You will never be safe again because of your 
foolishness last night. Now, leave my sight."  
I didn’t make him repeat himself. The anteroom was still empty of 
the Colonel’s aide and I let myself out. I made my way towards the 
cafeteria. Service would have ended by now, but there might still be 
some food out.  
As I walked down the path, I saw Lewon in the distance, standing 
outside with Florian and her usual crew, waiting for m e, their eyes 
full of hate and malic e. 
 
 
 
I stopped in my tracks, evaluating the situation.  
If I turned and ran, they’d come after my like Nightbloods after a 
bleeding man.  
If I went forward, I’d have to say or do something to get past 
them.  
Either option was bad, but I stepped forward, facing them head -
on. 
I saw the surprise in their eyes when I kept coming. Good. Let 
them be the ones surprised for a change.  
As I got close to the group, they parted, glaring a t me. Lewon was 
there, right on the path. I had to brush his arm to get past and as I 
did I said, "Can’t get rid of me that easily."  
He took a step back, bumping into Florian behind him. I could see 
it in his eyes. He’d never expected me to make it back al ive. And on 
the off chance I did, he’d counted on me crying and accusing him. If 
I’d made a fool of myself, no one would have believed a word I said, 
and he’d have looked that much better for it.  
"And Roland still wants his debt paid," I whispered so no on e else 
could hear. "He’ll be coming for you." I had no idea if that were true, 
but I hoped it was.  
"What’s all the whispering about?" Someone near the rear of the 
pack demanded. "We all want to know what you did this time, 
Princess." He wasn’t using my tit le to be polite.  
"I’ll tell you what she did," Lewon said, smirking at me. "During 
our sword practice, she told me she loved me. Completely out of the 
Royal Dragoneer   160 
 blue. Like I would have anything to do with a court leech who’s lived 
her entire life off of the sweat of  others. Begged me to run away with 
her. And when I rejected her she ran off by herself, crying like a 
baby, and the Colonel had to go chasing after her."  
The others laughed, and Lewon grinned a sick twisted smile.  
"It’s true," I said, smiling back. "I tho ught I loved him, but then I 
realized how small his dragon is. And you know what they say about 
a man’s dragon matching the size of his…"  
Several people laughed despite themselves, and Lewon whirled 
toward them, glaring.  
Meanwhile, I slipped past and into the cafeteria, but I’d lost my 
appetite.  
I waited a few minutes, watching the crowd outside the door 
disperse, then made my way to the barracks as the sky darkened and 
thunder rolled in the distance. Maybe Lewon would get stuck by 
lightning. " Hey, a girl could hope." 
As I walked down the hall toward my room, I saw Esgeril coming 
out of hers. "Esgeril, I —" 
"I told you not to go." Anger rippled through her body, causing 
her to shake. "I warned you and look what happened."  
"Hey." In the past twenty -four hours,  I had been tricked, sold, 
bound, rescued, scolded, threatened, and verbally attacked. I refused 
to be pushed around any further. "You know what? I thought you 
were my friend. But you’re just like everyone else here." I stepped 
around her and stomped to my  room, slamming the door behind me.  
 
 
 
For weeks after the Lewon incident, I kept my head down and did 
my work. I attended all my classes, accepted my accumulated 
punishments, followed every rule, and tried as hard as I could to stay 
out of Authand’s office. That didn’t mean anyone liked me for it. 
They didn’t. If anything, it made Lewon, Florian, and their gang more 
vicious. They wanted me to mess up. They always had. Even Esgeril 
stayed clear of me, and I d idn’t blame her. Association with me 
would have just put her in the line of fire.  
The only friend I had left was Farean. Stretching the limits of our 
bond had brought us closer together. I trusted her in ways I hadn’t 
realized were possible. She no longer had to seek out my touch. I 
freely gave it. I might never forgive the Orcs or the dragon that killed 
my grandfather. But I no longer blamed Farean for an event that 
happened before she hatched.  
I was determined to keep my nose clean and become the best 
damn Dragoneer anyone had ever seen. I'd qualify for the Dragon 
Run and earn the respect I was due that way.  
The Dragon Moon had eclipsed the Kingsmoon once more. My 
room in the girls' barracks was positioned so they both shone in my 
window. On those nights, I couldn't get any sleep due to their glare. 
It was hard to believe I’d been training for half a year, but the 
monotony was getting to me, and I felt so restless. Technically, going 
for a walk after curfew was against the rules. But I yearned for time 
to m yself. So, I waited a few hours for the rest of the camp to settle 
into slumber and slipped my boots onto my feet.  
Royal Dragoneer   162 
 Glancing out the door, the coast was clear, and I tiptoed down the 
hall. I continued to the stairwell. Two steps down, I heard a door 
open.  
"Who’s there?" Florian’s groggy voice called out. I didn’t wait for 
her discover me. I took the stairs three at a time down to the ground 
floor and slipped quietly out the door. I dove into a shrub and lay on 
the damp earth with juniper scratching at my nec k. 
I waited there, catching my breath, but no one came after me. 
Florian must have just gone back to bed, thankfully.  
A candle illuminated the heads of Florian and a third year who 
proctored our hall. "I heard somebody in the stairs. They must be out 
here, " Florian explained. "I bet it was that ‘I’m better than everyone’ 
princess."  
The proctor shook her head in the dim flame. "Well, there’s 
nobody out here now. Go back to bed. I’ll stand a watch to catch 
them when they try to sneak back in."  
"What if it was  a boy sneaking back out after invading our 
barracks?" Florian stomped her foot, her slipper landing inches from 
my hand. I jerked it back instinctively, and the juniper shook.  
They noticed the motion and turned towards the shrub. I stayed as 
still as poss ible and the proctor turned back to Florian, apparently 
convinced it had been an animal. "I thought you said it was Kalia. 
Don’t waste my time making up stories. Go to bed, Florian, before I 
make you stand the watch by yourself."  
She mumbled something inau dible and shuffled back inside. The 
proctor held the candle up and peered into the darkness before 
returning inside. I waited several more minutes before crawling back 
out into the open.  
I didn't want to risk being seen again, so I made my way to the 
boath ouse. The sentries on night duty rarely ever looked in the 
direction of the lake, because Goblins despised water and did 
everything they could to avoid it. Any eyes searching for threats 
tonight would be pointed the other direction. There was already a 
canoe missing, which was odd. Maybe some other cadet had the 
163  Ash Rober ts 
 same idea as me for an evening of alone time. Well, if they had, it 
wasn't like they'd be in a position to report me.  
I slid a canoe into the water and paddled to the beach where 
Lewon and I had tra ined. I hadn't been back since that night. 
Thoughts of sharpening the practice sword and using it against him 
came to me, but I shook my head to clear my mind and set off into 
the woods.  
I heard the crack of a branch in the trees. But it was probably just 
a squirrel. Since Farean had hatched, all my senses had become 
keener. I wanted to ask Esgeril if that was normal or another one of 
my freak abilities. But we had to be on speaking terms for that.  
But squirrels didn't talk and I could hear voices as well. They were 
low and still far off, but I wasn't alone out here. I recalled Authand's 
warning about Roland. Was he that thirsty for revenge that he'd risk 
coming to the camp? I inched closer; I needed to know what I was 
up against.  
"Does he think I'd really d ouble cross him like that?" Lewon said 
in an agitated whisper. "She called her dragon. How was I supposed 
to know she could do that? We were over ten leagues away. I can 
only reach Calen from three."  
"You cost Roland his prize. And he always collects. If n ot the girl, 
then you," Bior said.  
"But no one would pay a ransom for me."  
"Roland will think of a use for you." From my vantage point, I 
could see Bior's fangs gleam in the moonlight.  
If Bior was here, there would be other Nightbloods about.  
That was the last thought I had before the flash of pain at the back 
of my head and everything went dark.  
I woke slowly. My head throbbed and acrid smoke wafted in my 
face carried by a light breeze. I opened my eyes to find myself loosely 
tied to a huge boulder.  
As my vision adjusted to the dim light of the fire, I saw Roland 
sitting in an ornate wooden chair. It seemed out of place surrounded 
by the crude treatments of a military unit in the field behind him, but 
Royal Dragoneer   164 
 Roland did have certain flair. He stared at me, ob viously aware I had 
returned to consciousness.  
"So, the Princess is the first to wake," he said, holding out his 
hand to Bior who stood to his right. "Bior, you owe me ten gold 
coins. I told you she was the tough one. The boy is still drooling in 
his sleep ." 
"The boy? What  boy?" I rolled my aching head gently to the right, 
following Bior’s glaring glance, and found myself face -to-face with 
Lewon. We were tied to the same tree. His shoulder was touching 
mine, and his once handsome face was a dark swollen bru ise. Slowly, 
my foggy brain put two -and-two together. They hadn’t just taken me 
from training camp. They’d taken Lewon, too.  
"I hit him much harder than Pani hit her," Bior said, handing a 
fistful of coins to his boss.  
"Well, wake him up then," Roland comm anded. "Douse him with 
a bucket of water or something. I don’t want to have to explain all 
my delectable plans for them twice."  
So, Bior fetched a bucket of water and poured it over Lewon’s 
head. Of course, it hit me too, waking me up even more.  
Lewon coug hed like he was drowning, his head lolling back and 
forth, his eyes rolling open and squinting against the glare of the 
firelight.  
"I would have come willingly, Roland," he sputtered. "You didn’t 
have to have your lapdog punch me in the face."  
"Not if you’ d known what I have planned," Roland said. "I 
wouldn't normally lower myself to such rough conditions as this, but 
you are worth it. Thanks to your betrayal," Roland pointed a long 
finger at me, "she escaped."  
"I told Bior, I had no part of that." Lewon sp at. "It’s not my fault 
you’re incompetent."  
Bior bared his fangs. "Let me drain him, boss."  
Roland waved him off. "As much as I'd like to be rid of the 
troublemaker, we need him alive for now. His fate will be that of the 
girl's. No one has escaped me befo re. It’s bad for business. Instead of 
165  Ash Rober ts 
 ransom, I have a more permanent solution for the two of you. I think 
I will turn you over to my brother."  
I blinked, not understanding, my headache making it even harder 
to think. A Goblin with graying hair came forwar d, out of the 
shadows. I did not know their military insignia well, but he seemed to 
be some sort of high ranking official. As he stepped nearer to Roland 
and into the firelight, I could see the family resemblance.  
"This is my younger brother, Ariz, low ge neral of the Goblin 
armies." Roland turned to Aziz. "My brother, I have brought you two 
dragons tonight."  
With Ariz standing next to him, Roland seemed almost humble. 
He kept his eyes down respectfully, as one might do in the presence 
of a noble. Roland bo wed to no king, but next to his sibling, he acted 
like a servant. Ariz, for his part stood with the relaxed confidence of 
someone who had spent a lifetime leading others. His face conveyed 
no love for his brother. To him, Roland was just another underling.  
"I imagine you expect extra payment for it," the Goblin general 
hissed.  
"Consider her a gift," Roland said. "  
"We're not family!" Ariz snapped. "You forsook your family to 
become this abomination." His hand swept over Roland's form.  
"Father didn't exactly  give me a choice, did he?" Roland' 
protested. "If my maker hadn't found me, I would be dead."  
"That would have been better," Aziz said, cold -heartedly. "Collect 
your money and leave us."  
Roland nodded. "The witch will be here within the hour." He got 
up, glancing at Bior who had stood silently beside his boss 
throughout the entire exchange. Then, they both melted into the 
shadows of the forest, taking Roland’s odd chair with them.  
Ariz approached the stone Lewon and I were bound to and 
examined me. "You ar e very valuable, Princess," he said, his breath 
wafting across my face. "And your beasts will provide much 
nourishment to my soldiers. But never fear. I will return you to your 
father. Well, part of you, at least."  
Royal Dragoneer   166 
 I shivered at his threat. Then I remember ed my years of training in 
Kastea. Squaring my shoulders as much as the rope allowed, I looked 
him in the eye. "I'm afraid you’ve wasted your time. Our dragons 
aren’t with us. Farean and Calen are still safe back at camp."  
Ariz laughed,  a hoarse, guttural sound that reminded me of a dying 
animal. "They will come," he said. "You are too precious to them, 
because of that slavery you have been forced into by your false god. 
We seek merely to free you. The world will thank us one day for 
ridding you of those vile creatures."  
"If you live off the meat of gross animals," I said. "It's a surprise 
you didn’t succumb to cannibalism ages ago."  
Lewon snorted out a laugh.  
Ariz maintained a calm facade, but his eyes burned with rage. "I 
hear the witch 's spell is painful." The corners of his lips twitched, like 
he was trying to smile but couldn't remember how. "I wish I could 
watch, but a General's work is never done."  
After he walked away into the darkness, I craned my head towards 
Lewon. "What's he ta lking about?"  
The color was gone from his face. "There are stories. Oh, gods, I 
thought they were just stories. There are witches to the north. 
Outcasts from the seven kingdoms who live among the feral dragons 
in the mountains. They're said to train in the  old magics. Perversions 
of the things we used to be able to do. They say they have a spell to 
break the bond between dragon and rider."  
"But Authand said…" The rest of my protest died on my lips. It 
was hard to imagine six months ago that I’d wanted the v ery thing 
Lewon was talking about. Now, the thought repulsed me.  
"He probably doesn't believe the stories. They're things whispered 
in the dark, designed to scare children. Besides, if it is true, it doesn't 
end well for the dragon. It's like they're dead inside. And the rider 
doesn't fare much better."  
I shivered. "Why would Ariz bother with it then? Why not just kill 
us?" 
167  Ash Rober ts 
 Lewon shook his head. "I think he thinks he is saving us from the 
dragons, like they control us instead of the other way round."  
"Farea n, can you hear me? Don’t  come for me. It’s too dangerous.  Just get 
Authand. "Through our connection, I got nothing but a faint sensation 
of rushing wind. She must be sleeping. She hadn’t heard me, but it 
also meant that she was safe.  
Beside me, lines creas ed Lewon’s forehead. "Calen’s not answering 
me. We should still be in range. I don’t think they took us that far."  
A Goblin soldier approached us carrying an earthen cup. He 
pressed it to my lips. He was a full head shorter than me and had to 
raise it over  his head to reach. "Drink."  
The thin, grey liquid bubbled as if boiling, but gave off no heat. It 
smelled like a wine that had gone rancid in the skin. I pursed my lips 
against it, knowing that whatever it was, it was nothing good.  
Lewon kicked at him. Ou r feet had been tied, but apparently he’d 
worked his foot out of his boot. "Get that away from us, greyskin."  
The kick jostled the soldier, but he didn’t spill the drink. He pulled 
a dagger from his belt andpressed it against my right wrist, 
threatening to  sever my hand. He probably assumed it was my lesser 
one. "The General wantsss you alive, but you don’t have to be in one 
piece."  
I gulped and opened my mouth. He forced the liquid down; it 
tasted worse than it smelled. "What was that?"  
"It will confuse yo ur dragons and make them easier to capture."  
I whimpered. Already, my mind felt fuzzy. Farean was rousing, but 
her thoughts didn’t make sense. "Why am I the only one who has to 
drink it?"  
Lewon shot me a dirty look. Calling attention to a potential 
advanta ge wasn’t the best plan.  
The soldier laughed, a wet, raspy sound. I’d cover my ears if I 
could move. "You both received a dose before you woke. His dragon 
is already here. Yours just needed more encouragement."  
A second soldier approached. "The witch is he re. The General 
wants the boy."  
Royal Dragoneer   168 
 With the dagger still in his hand, the first one cut the knot holding 
the ropes. I was still secured to the tree, but Lewon lunged forward.  
The second soldier wrapped the loose end of the rope around 
Lewon's neck. His eyes b ulged as it dug into his skin and cut off his 
air supply. The Goblin wrapped more rope around his wrists before 
letting the loop around his neck slacken. Lewon gasped in deep 
lungsful of air before the soldier kicked him. "It's time for you to 
meet your dr agon for the last time.  
They left me alone with my thoughts, which I directed at Farean 
through our now fuzzy connection. " Please  don't come. Just get Authand.  
It's too dangerous  for you."No coherent response came back, just a vague 
feeling of confusion and rage.  
The Goblins lit a fire in a nearby clearing that dwarfed the one I 
was in. On one side of it, they secured Lewon to another tree. 
Directly across the bonfire, Calen was laying on his  side with his legs 
bound together. Braided vines wrapped around his neck. They were 
attached to a similar loop being secured around Lewon's neck.  
Ariz was nowhere in sight, but a woman shrouded in dark robes 
directed the effort. I couldn't tell her race. The firelight cast weird 
shadows over her features, and a hood covered most of her head. 
This must be the witch who would sunder the bond between Farean 
and me, if she came here. This was the person who would rob me of 
the one thing I'd come to value more than my own life.  
The leaves rustled around me as if there was a wind, but I felt 
none. A sentry near the clearing let out a yell and then was gone. The 
scream alerted the others, and a company of Goblins stationed in the 
darkness came forward. A flash of blue shot out from the trees and 
grabbed another before disappearing again into the night sky.  
Archers shot bolts and arrows into the dark. One must have found 
its mark, because I heard Farean scream, both aloud and in my head. 
She dropped her captive. He landed not twenty feet from me with a 
crunch and didn't move.  
169  Ash Rober ts 
 I felt a hand on my shoulder and jumped as much as my bindings 
would allow. Meril crossed into my field of vision. "You saved me, 
and through that, my pups. I have come to repay that debt."  
I nodded but said nothing. She pulled at the ropes, but the knots 
were too tight. She shook her head and took a step back. Her hand 
folded before my eyes, her finger shortening and growing fur. The 
transformation looked extremely painful, but she stood there w ith 
only a grimace.  
She exhaled slowly. Sweat dotted her forehead and her skin was 
almost as pale as Roland’s had been. She flicked her wrist and a long 
serrated claw unfolded from her body. She returned her attention to 
me and used it on the rope, slicing  it like it was nothing. Then she 
used her normal human hand to pull the ruins of the rope away from 
me. 
Meril cocked her head at some sound that even my own keen 
hearing couldn't discern. A girl about five years old stumbled into the 
clearing wearing noth ing but a tattered blouse that reached her knees. 
Behind him came a boy of the same age. Instead of clothing, brown 
fur covered all of his body save his face.  
"Tem, Bere, I told you to wait for me in the den," Meril scolded 
with a growl in the back of her throat.  
"We were bored," the girl whined.  
"I told Tem to stay, but she wouldn't listen," the boy added.  
Meril was about to say something, but suddenly pounced at the 
boy instead. She transformed into a wolf mid leap. Bere's eyes 
widened and dropped to the ground as his body changed shape as 
well. Meril's fangs dug into the arm of a Goblin who'd snuck behind 
the boy with a raised knife. The Goblin screamed as she mauled him, 
slicing gashes across his neck he would not survive.  
But the noise had alerted the t roops and a contingent from the 
ones surrounding Farean broke off in our direction.  
"Save your dragon," Meril growled. Her words came through 
slurred by the shape of her wolf mouth. "I can't fight them alone."  
Royal Dragoneer   170 
 I looked back at Farean again. She was surroun ded by Goblins. 
Arrows hampered her wing and taking to the air seemed unlikely at 
this point. Farther off, the witch hurried to complete the preparations 
to rip the dragon bond from Lewon. I wouldn't be able to free him in 
time to be any help.  
I spied a ra ck of swords near the line of tents. I grabbed one and 
charged for the nearest beast. The blade's balance was different from 
the one I was used to, and my first couple of thrusts were awkward 
and missed their mark.  
Two turned from Farean, aiming their bows  at me. I thrust at the 
one on the right, slicing through the bow string and pulling the 
weapon from her hands while she fell back. I flung it towards her 
companion as he was notching his arrow. He flinched as the ruined 
bow clattered against his body.  
I used the distraction to attack. His leather armor held against my 
swing, but it knocked him to the ground. He dropped the bow and 
pulled out a dagger. While my sword had more reach, he undoubtedly 
had more training.  
Farean shrieked and I took my eye off my opponent to see an 
arrow lodged between her scales near the wing joint. Then the 
Goblin was upon me. I attempted to block, but steel bit into my 
unprotected forearm, carving a deep gash. I dropped the sword as 
blood welled to the surface.  
I went for the sw ord on the ground, but he was faster and kicked 
it away. He lunged again. I tried to roll but he leapt on top of me, 
pinning me to the mud. My mind flashed through defenses Lewon 
had taught me, but before I could implement one, the Goblin 
screamed and drop ped his weapon, falling on top of me.  
I grunted, pushing his writhing body to the side, only to reveal 
Tem with his bloody boot in her mouth. Gouges ran the length of his 
calf with bits of leather stuck in the wounds. She spit out the boot 
and ran off towa rds another unsuspecting Goblin, her tail wagging 
behind her.  
171  Ash Rober ts 
 I reached for my sword, but when I turned back around, the 
Goblin was gone. I looked up to see him dangling from Farean's 
jaws. A sickening crunch filled the air as she severed his body in half.  
She also had the she -Goblin pinned under her paw, which she 
lifted, eyeing the thing like a giant cat with a mouse. She lifted her 
foot, and the Goblin crab -walked backwards. Farean reared and 
landed with a thud pushing her claw through the Goblin’s chest . 
I struggled to keep the contents of my stomach intact.A tortured 
yelp from Lewon brought my attention back to his situation. The 
witch had finished the preparations and was now working on 
channeling  magic into the cable physically linking him to his dragon. 
Green sparks danced along its length.  
I glanced over at the witch. Her eyes were rolled back into her 
head. Unless she could magically sense me, she wouldn’t be able to 
stop me.  
I kept my head on a swivel as I made my way over to Lewon. 
Unless they had fled, Ariz and the first two soldiers we’d seen were 
still somewhere nearby.  
As I approached, however, rage filled me. Lewon had gotten me 
kidnapped, not just once, but twice. He’d led me on and ruin ed my 
relationship with Esgeril. Friendship, I corrected myself, coming to a 
stop just a few feet from where Lewon was bound. What I’d lost with 
Esgeril was a friendship, not a romance. Although, if I was being 
honest with myself, if she’d been a boy, I mi ght never have fallen for 
Lewon’s lies.  
"Help me," he croaked, returning me to the present.  
"Why should I?" I shot back. "All of this is your fault."  
"I know. I’m sorry." His breath came in short, jagged bursts. 
"None of this was supposed to happen. Roland  was just going to 
rough you up a little, just for show, until your father delivered the 
ransom. Nobody was supposed to get hurt."  
I stomped my foot."You’re just sorry because Roland thinks you 
double crossed him."  
Royal Dragoneer   172 
 "No, I am. Besides you need me. Do you th ink you can defeat a 
Goblin general on your own?"  
He had a point, but then again, Meril was still here. As if on cue, 
she trotted up to us. Blood matted her fur, but it didn’t appear to be 
hers. Behind her, Tem and Bere fought over a severed Goblin leg.  
"My debt is repaid," she said. "Now I must take my pups back to 
safety."  
I bowed before her. "Thank you. It is now I, who am in your 
debt." And then she and her pups still disappeared into the woods 
faster than my eyes could follow.  
I turned back to Lewon. " Okay, I guess I’m stuck with you." I 
sawed through his bindings with my sword until he was free. He 
yanked the braided vines off his head, which set off a burst in the 
bonfire.  
That got the witch’s attention. She yelled as if the pain Lewon had 
been feelin g had rebounded back on her. She looked around and saw 
that the Goblins who had been hired to guard her were gone. She 
clapped her hands and transformed into an eagle, flying away.  
Lewon crossed the clearing to where Calen still lay bound. 
Grabbing a dagge r from one of the fallen Goblins, he made quick 
work of freeing his dragon. He fashioned a crude harness not unlike 
the one I’d first worn with Farean, and climbed onto Calen’s back.  
"What are you doing? Ariz is still out there," I said.  
"That’s your probl em," he sneered. "I need to get back before 
Authand notices I’m missing."  
"If you leave me here, I’ll tell Authand that you’re working with 
Roland."  
He shook his head."If you make it back, you’d do best to keep 
your mouth shut. What’s Authand going to do i f he finds out you 
were sneaking out after curfew?"  
"So were you."  
"I’ll be getting back a bit later than expected, but my alibi is 
already secure." With that, they lifted off and disappeared into the 
night.  
173  Ash Rober ts 
 I shook my head. As much as I hated to admit it,  he was probably 
right. I’d broken curfew and if the Goblins were really this close to 
Tulta, they might have captured me without Lewon’s help. I crossed 
the muddy ground to Farean’s side as she licked the blood from her 
foot. My stomach somersaulted again  before I looked away.  
"The tree". I could sense her pointing in my mind and looked in 
that direction  
His lieutenant leapt from the tree onto her back, plunging another 
dagger in the gap between her scales. She screamed and reared, but 
he kept his hold on the blade buried between her shoulders. I 
climbed up her leg and faced him. He looked from me to the dagger 
as if trying to decide to continue with Ariz’s order or defend himself.  
I took a step forward and he yanked the blade from Farean’s hide. 
He stood, bringing it into a guard position. The other soldier 
dropped to Farean’s back as well, leaving Ariz alone in the tree.  
The second soldier dropped to a knee and slid his own dagger into 
a fresh wound. Farean snapped and thrashed, sending the lieutenant 
and me to our knees as we struggled to keep from being thrown.  
He rose to his feet, but I stayed low. He advanced while I faked a 
struggle to regain my balance. He took slow, shuffling steps across 
Farean’s back, but I held my position. He came within striking  
distance and shifted his grip on the hilt. I pushed up and knocked 
him clear off Farean’s back.  
She dove at the body and came up again with the Goblins leg in 
her mouth, her teeth streaked with red. The other Goblin’s eyes went 
wide, and I rushed him. He knelt for the dagger, but I reached him 
first. My momentum pushed us both off Farean’s back.  
I landed on top and punched him in the face. His head bounced 
against a rock, and I hit him again. Eyes rolled back in their sockets, 
but still I continued until h e laid there unmoving and my hands 
throbbed from the impact.  
I remembered Ariz and looked up but the coward was gone. I 
scanned the tree line in search of him, but Farean’s plaintive cries 
Royal Dragoneer   174 
 brought my attention back to her. I scrambled up her side and pulle d 
the blade from where is had been buried.  
It hurts,  she whimpered as I withdrew it. Along with the two 
gouges on her back, her wings were torn and bleeding. A scale was 
missing from her leg. I took in the damage she had taken while 
defending me. All thoug hts of leaving vanished and anger grew in my 
breast, that she’d been hurt for my sake.  
I went through and removed the bolts and arrows that had lodged 
between scales. Her wings were in even worse shape than I had 
previously believed. Farean would not fly a gain tonight, if she ever 
reached the air again. I placed my body against hers, my hands warm 
where they touched her. I looked again, and they glowed with soft 
light. I pressed them against a hole in her wing.  
The wound glowed with the same light from my h ands. They grew 
warm, even painful, but I continued until I saw the edges knit 
themselves back together. My body grew warm and steadily weaker as 
the life energy was sucked from me.  
I pulled away and the hole was gone, replaced by translucent blue 
skin tha t covered her wings. I did this on the next wound, and the 
one after, taking my time on each on. "Is that better?" The glow 
faded from my hands, and I rubbed her neck ridge.  
My stomach  hurts"." She rubbed at her belly with a hind leg for 
effect. I rushed o ver to feel for myself, although I had no clue what I 
was actually looking for. I think I ate something  rotten.  
I swatted her rump for the bad joke but laughed in spite of myself. 
I looked at the sky. The Kingsmoon was in danger of setting now. 
Soon the su n would poke above the horizon and reveal our absence 
to the other Dragoneers.  
Now that Farean had healed enough to fly, I needed to figure out 
how to secure myself. I had my half of the harness, but that didn’t do 
much good when Farean’s half lay safely t ucked in its storage box 
back at camp. The remainder of the ropes wouldn’t provide enough 
cordage. I scanned the meager tents and found a likely target. Taking 
care to not run afoul of the stakes, I picked my way across the camp 
175  Ash Rober ts 
 to it. Pulling my Goblin bl ade in front of me, I pulled the flap aside 
and looked in.  
No foes waited inside, but it wasn’t empty. As I’d suspected, their 
supplies lay stacked in packs. I tried hefting one, barely clearing the 
ground. While the elves towered over the vile creatures, they had the 
superior strength. I lowered the pack again and instead sifted through 
the contents. Mostly the packs contained rations of vile meats 
wrapped in oilcloth, but in a side pouch, I found a length of sturdy 
looking rope.  
I ran back to Farean and c oiled it around her chest, securing it 
with the knots I’d been learning at the camp. I tied loops at the ends 
and triple knotted them to be sure. Climbing to my spot on her back, 
I clipped into these loops and gave them a tentative pull. I tracked 
the King smoon once more; no more than an hour remained until 
dawn and even less by the tower’s standards.  
"Go," I urged her, and she leapt into the air. Up in the sky, the 
first strands of pink light of predawn glowed over the horizon. I 
urged her faster, but the sky lightened faster than we could fly.  
A mile from camp, Farean dove back into the trees. It was darker 
there, and I could barely make out the ends of her wings, but she 
deftly swerved through the dense foliage until she cleared it at the 
lake. 
The tower would read dawn in minutes now. We flew low to avoid 
detection, the pale blue of her scales being masked by the dark water. 
I could feel the cool air steaming from the surface, and I pulled my 
feet up unconsciously to keep them from getting wet.  
We cleared  the lake and continued just above the ground, eddies 
of dust swirling around us with each powerful flap. She didn’t begin 
slowing until almost upon the stable wall. The opening wouldn’t 
allow her full wingspan and she tucked them in. We cleared the 
openin g by inches and inside the room that no longer seemed so 
cavernous, she spread out again and beat in reverse to slow down 
while grabbing at the ground.  
Royal Dragoneer   176 
 Her momentum stopped, and I lurched forward but my knots 
held. The morning horn sounded; I couldn’t make  it back to the 
barracks now. Instead, I untied the rope and shoved it in my pack 
before crawling into the crook over her foreleg. Her breathing 
labored but slowed as I pressed against her. My own breath was 
ragged as well. What would they do when they fou nd me here? There 
was nothing I could do and leaving would only make my discovery 
more suspicious.  
Farean began snoring. The exertions and battles of the day were 
over, and dragons need their rest. Her sleep affected me as well. I 
struggled for several min utes, but the siren song of slumber soon 
overtook me.  
 
 
 
Farean and I flew above the treetops as she practiced her 
maneuvers. She swooped low above the trees and I caught my ankle 
on an errant branch. "Hey, careful." She ignored me as she rose again 
and then I hit another branch.  
I opened my eyes. Authand looked down at me as he tapped the 
side of his steel claw against his leather breeches. I blinked a couple 
times and suppressed a yawn. Judging by the shadows, I couldn’t 
have slept more than an hour.  
"Didn’t we just have this conversation? I haven’t even had a meal 
yet since I warned you what would happen if you left camp without 
permission again.  
All traces of sleep left my brain and I stood before him . "I didn’t 
leave camp. I slept in the stables."  
He took a deep breath and held it for a moment before exhaling 
slowly. "Then why are you in your harness?"  
"I wasn’t going to sleep in the dirt in my nightgown." The words 
left my lips before I had even real ized that I had the lie ready -made. I 
looked at my hands; they were caked in dirt with a red smudge giving 
away my fight with the Goblins. I rubbed it against my thigh.  
His eyes followed the motion but he just chuckled.  
"Now I know that the others have bee n giving you a hard time 
here, but I can’t have you violating curfew and coming to the stables 
at all hours of the night either." He paced the small space, waking 
Farean. She lifted her head and looked from him to me, not willing to 
ask her question with s o many telepathic ears present.  
Royal Dragoneer   178 
 I wasn’t sure how much I could say to her either so I simply sent 
her a feeling of warmth and contentment and hoped she got the 
message. Can you sleep with me more often?  The question, benign as it 
was, held volumes of conve rsation.  
"The Colonel was just saying that I couldn’t before you woke." I 
shook my head. I took a step closer to her and hugged her as she 
nuzzled against my chest.  
"I understand the appeal. I often wish that Korth and I were still 
out in the field where w e were rarely more than a few feet from one 
another. But we have rules for a reason. This is your last chance to 
start following them. ALL of them."  
"Yes, sir." Calling the instructors sir instead of their given name 
still required conscious thought, but I  thought the moment warranted 
it. 
"For your punishment, you must skip breakfast and take Farean 
down to the lake to clean her. She must have been rolling in some 
clay mud. It almost looks as if someone bled out all over her."  
"Yes, sir," I repeated. I knew  better than to argue or question the 
boon I’d been given. Instead, I grabbed the bag that had given me 
away and rushed through the still open door for the barracks. "Meet 
me at the lake in ten minutes," I called over my shoulder.  
I turned back to the path  just in time to bowl Esgeril over. She let 
out a little shriek as she tumbled and fell. I reached out a hand to 
help her up, but she recoiled away from me.  
"I’m sorry." I couldn’t meet her eyes. Instead, I found myself 
inspecting the Aluminte rings on the  front of my harness.  
"You are sorry," she muttered. "You have got to be the sorriest 
excuse for a Dragoneer I have ever seen." She got up and pushed 
passed me, knocking me on the shoulder as she went by, despite the 
fact that there was plenty of room on t he path for both of us. Maybe 
I deserved it for running her down.  
I kicked at a stray rock, watching it bounce down the cobblestone 
path before it came to a stop between the rough stones. She’d 
warned me about Lewon, and I hadn’t listened. She’d tried to b e a 
179  Ash Rober ts 
 friend, and I’d rejected her. But to say I was a bad Dragoneer after all 
the effort I’d put in? That really hurt.  
I didn’t see her taking on a company of Goblins and an evil witch. 
I almost wished Lewon and I had gotten caught returning, so I didn’t 
have to lie about that feat. I was no longer the soft and frivolous girl 
who’d run away at the hatching. Now the night dress scrunched 
under my harness barely contained the muscles I’d built in my 
shoulders from the physical activity around camp.  
I might eve n take Florian in a fair fight, not that I expected her 
capable of such a thing. Lewon’s lessons had included hand to hand 
combat. He’d gotten angry because I always lost those sessions, but 
in fact, I let him win towards the end, relishing being pinned to  the 
ground underneath him. What an idiot I’d been to let those feelings 
grow for someone so unworthy of them.  
All I felt now was contempt for Lewon. But he’d earned it. Had I 
been a fool to go back for him and risk Farean and myself? Probably. 
But I’d do it again, even knowing he wouldn’t do the same for me. I 
was learning I couldn’t let what other people did change who I was. 
Besides, his dragon hadn’t deserved to be severed, even if Lewon 
had. 
After I changed and had breakfast, I scrubbed Farean until he r 
scales shone, while she regaled me with stories of our victory as if I 
hadn’t been there. And I had to remind her that it was our little 
secret. It took all morning, but I lifted each scale to clean the grime 
underneath and polished the tops. I squinted,  looking at her as she 
reflected the brilliance of the sun.  
Between my lack of sleep and the effort I’d put into cleaning, 
curling up against Farean where she dozed in the sand seemed 
tempting. But the lunch bell rang, and my stomach reminded me I’d 
been m issing too many meals lately.  
The hall went silent as I entered, and I felt hundreds of eyes on 
me as I made my way to the line. The silence was short lived, 
however, and soon the buzz of voices resumed. As I passed the 
Royal Dragoneer   180 
 tables, I discovered much of it was gossip about me, meant for me to 
overhear. I simply ignored it and took my food to an empty table.  
A group of third year girls sat at the table beside me. They 
watched me sit and, as if a single entity with ten legs and ten arms, 
stood and moved to a table  farther away.  
Empty tables now surrounded me. That was fine by me. Alone, I 
couldn’t hear the barbs being spoken a little too loudly. The room 
suddenly fell silent, and I looked up to see Colonel Authand standing 
at the front.  
"I have put a signup sheet outside," he announced. "Anyone 
wishing to compete for a slot at the Darnetan Dragon Run must 
submit their name by the end of the day. Your instructors will 
consider your progress in all areas and five of you will be chosen to 
represent the training ground s." 
The hall broke into loud murmuring. If I’d had anyone to talk to, I 
would have joined in. This could be my chance to prove my worth 
and be taken seriously. I shoveled my lunch down and got up to 
dump my trash.  
On the way out the door, I noticed Authand  staring at me from 
the teacher’s table. Were his eyes daring me to sign -up, or daring me 
not too?  
As promised, a sheet had been nailed to the wooden 
announcement board. The top simply read "Tryouts" with several 
rows of blank lines. A charcoal stick sat o n the lip. Well, it wasn’t like 
I could become any more of a laughing stock than I already was. 
What did I have to lose?  
I took a breath and scribbled my name before I had a chance to 
back down. By being first, at least I’d shown I wasn’t afraid of my 
peers, or their opinions of me.  
 
 
 
Authand and the other instructors spent a week fielding questions 
from curious Dragoneers before posting a leaderboard  outside the 
mess hall. I was listed as number twenty out of twenty -one student 
candidates. Not a great start, but at least I wasn’t dead last. Lewon 
first and Florian was right behind him. But I couldn’t let that bother 
me. 
The second week, I had moved up  to tenth place. My instructors 
were beginning to recognize my progress. I even made it into the 
advanced class that Selkerdrim taught as a teacher’s assistant. "I want 
the glove from the top of the flag pole," Selkerdrim shouted through 
the amplifying hor n he’d borrowed from the professor. I followed 
her pointer to the Darnetan flag flapping in the wind. Above it sat 
the familiar dragon filial. But a leather glove covered its left wing.  
Farean growled. I could feel her neck muscles clenching. Despite 
multi ple attempts, we still hadn’t managed to grab anything while 
midair. Attempts usually ended in an emergency landing so Farean 
could heal a broken wrist. I knew that each healing provided a full 
renewal so that injuries became good as new. But it still thro bbed 
when I thought about it.  
I exhaled slowly. "We can do this. I’ve got a feeling." She said 
nothing but rose up for the approach. She felt at the flagpole, the sun 
at our backs to reduce glare. The metal post approached more 
quickly than I would have li ked. I squinted at the glove, willing it to 
leap into my hand. Fifty feet to go.  
Farean folded her wing in, sending us into a tilting swirl. Twenty 
feet to go. I extended my arm, lining it up with my target, following it 
as our angle changed. Ten feet. I l eaned forward. I knew in my gut 
Royal Dragoneer   182 
 that I could make it. Five feet. I knew better, but in my mind, I could 
smell the leather.  
*CRACK*  
Pigeons roosting on the stable roof flew off in protest as my 
scream echoed off every building in the camp. Farean dropped to  the 
ground. The jolt sent a fresh wave of pain through my dangling wrist.  
Selkerdrim saw my arm and turned green. "Oh gods. Let me get 
the healer."  
"No, wait." I gritted my teeth through the pain. "Help me down." 
I’d gotten quite good at extricating mysel f from the harness with only 
one hand, but one buckle required putting some pressure on my right 
arm to reach.  
I slid down Farean’s back while Selkerdrim supported me. I 
whimpered as I held the broken joint out to my dragon. She grasped 
the offending limb with her claw. Tears welled in my eyes, and I 
fought to contain them. I’d failed the challenge yet again and while 
being evaluated to boot. At the very least, I would keep some dignity 
in being seen to withstand the pain even though I wanted little more 
to curl up into a ball and cry.  
Soft light pulsed under the tiny scales about her limb, radiating 
towards the point of our contact. I took short, panting breaths as 
heat spread over my arm, seeping deep under the skin. This part 
never got any easier but I kn ew in. Few moments it would pass in a 
few moments. I could feel the bones knit together.  
The glow subsided and Farean released me. I flexed my fingers 
slowly. The pain was gone, except for the hallow memory of it which 
never seemed to quite fade.  
Selkerdri m stared at me, his mouth opening and closing several 
times before he found his tongue. "How did you do that? Nobody 
can do that. No elf has had magic that strong since the days of 
Vernis. Does this hurt?" He grabbed my hand and squeezed where 
the freshly healed tissue.  
The name he mentioned tickled something in the back of my 
mind, a familiarity I couldn’t quite place. I wanted to ask him who 
183  Ash Rober ts 
 that was, but the query was quickly submerged under a sea of his own 
questions.  
"Don’t tell anyone," I told her. "O nly you and Esgeril know." 
Speaking her name still hurt. I wondered if she would betray my trust 
now that we were no longer friends.  
"I." His next words where overpowered by the sound of the horn 
blowing. We turned at the sound. The next emergency drill sh ouldn’t 
happen for weeks yet. We headed towards the sound, soon joined by 
other elves streaming out of the buildings. A few dragon heads poked 
over the crowd, also curious about the unexpected drill.  
We all turned at the sound. We’d just had an emergency d rill two 
days before. It was unlikely to be one again so soon. I moved, 
heading towards the sound, soon joined by other Elves streaming out 
of the buildings. A few dragon heads poked from the stables, alert 
and curious.  
Authand marched to the front of the parade field, pulling his 
harness over his tunic as he went. The buckles gleamed like new, but 
there were reddish stains on his riding leathers under the right breast 
plate, an eternal reminder of the day he’d bloodily lost his hand.  
The aide, whose name nobody seemed to know, handed him a 
speaking horn. The Colonel closed the articulating hook around the 
handle and brought it to his face. "We are under attack from Goblins. 
This is not a drill. Selkerdrim, take Rilith and fly as fast as you can to 
the main  Dragoneer barracks in Verlo to get help."  
Verlo was almost a full day’s flight away. Depending on the size of 
the Goblin force, we might be able to hold them off for two days 
without outside help. These facts came to me easily and instantly, a 
result of o verhearing basic military tactics while playing under my 
father’s war table as a child.  
"Recruits, to arms and defend your home!" Authand called a 
rallying cry.  
Dragoneers jostled each other, some running to the barracks for 
their harnesses, others, who al ready had them on, to the stables.  
Royal Dragoneer   184 
 I was about to run for Farean when Authand grabbed me. "Not 
you, Kalia. Go to my quarters. There is a hatch under my desk that 
will lead you to a cave. I will send Farean to meet you. You’ll be safe 
there, no matter what happens to the camp."  
"But I want to help." I shook him off. "I can’t just cower and hide 
while others are fighting."  
"You can, and you will," he thundered, shaking his hook in my 
face. "I will not put the princess of this kingdom in danger.  
"But—" 
"Go. Th at’s an order, dammit." Something crashed against the 
gate, and the wood started to buckle. "Reinforce the gate!" Authand 
ordered. "I need dragons in the air now!" He ran to where Elves and 
dragons were barricading the entrance.  
"Go to the cave." Farean pl eaded. " I can keep you safe there". I turned to 
find her pacing the ground behind me. I hadn’t even heard her land.  
"Not you, too. We should be up there." I pointed to the sky where 
a dozen dragons carried rocks, logs, and anything they could find to 
drop on the invaders beyond the wall. "We have as much right to 
fight as anyone here."  
Just as I said it, a boulder the size of a cow came sailing over the 
wall. I stood, motionless, as it hit Selkerdrim’s dragon Rilith square in 
the head. Selkerdrim, who had b een mounting the dragon, screamed 
as they both tumbled to the ground. Rilith landed with a sickening 
thud in the grass before us. Neither rider nor dragon moved. I ran 
towards them, and Selkerdrim stirred. Blood trickled from his brow 
where his head had bo unced against Rilith’s bony neck ridge.  
I slowed as I approached. Rilith’s neck lay at an odd angle, his 
head caved in on one side. The Blue dragon was no longer breathing.  
"Selkerdrim, I —" I reached out, trying to help her up.  
"Get away from him!" he scre amed. He had his buckles undone in 
a flash and pulled a knife from his belt as he dropped to the ground. 
"I won’t let you hurt him." Tears flowed down his cheeks as he 
waved the knife from side to side.  
185  Ash Rober ts 
 Farean bellowed behind me. I turned but saw nothing w rong. 
Around the camp the other dragons joined in her baleful cry.  
"He’s dead, Selkerdrim," I said softly. "And you’re hurt. We need 
to get you to the healer." I took a step forward.  
"He’s not dead," he insisted, his eyes lost and confused. "He’s just 
sleeping. Stay away from us."  
I looked around. Everyone was too busy to even notice that Rilith 
had fallen. I couldn’t see Authand, but he needed to send somebody 
else to fetch Dragoneers reinforcements. But if I waded into the 
battle to try and find him, he’d  be pissed. And if no one flew to get 
reinforcements, we’d all be dead.  
"We’ll go," I told Farean. I closed the few feet between us, 
mounted her, and buckled myself in.  
"But"— 
"Now! " I commanded. " You want safe? How much safer can we be than 
flying to the other side of the country?  " 
She considered my argument for a moment, then launched us into 
the air.  
Within seconds, another boulder missile was hurtling toward us.  
"Down.  "I directed.  
Farean tucked her wings and rolled away from the projectile.  
I felt the  air riffle as it passed inches from us.  
Farean started flapping again, gaining altitude.  
We passed over Authand.  
Seeing us overhead, he shouted. "What are you doing? Get down 
here, you idiot girl!"  
I pointed down at Selkerdrim still defending his dead dra gon and 
turned away from him.  
Farean lurched, catching a smaller boulder aimed at us in her 
talons. She labored under its weight, getting closer to the wall before 
tossing it back down on the Goblins. They scattered like 
cockroaches, but quickly returned t o loading their trebuchets.  
I saw Esgeril crouched behind a merlon at the top of the wall, 
firing her crossbow with deadly accuracy. She saved her shots for 
Royal Dragoneer   186 
 those closest to overcoming the defenses. Even so, she’d already 
emptied half of her quiver in the few short minutes since the battle 
began.  
The curve in the wall blocked her view of most of the action to 
her left. We had few enough archers, and that left an unguarded gap. 
I wondered that nobody had ever noticed it before; it seemed 
obvious enough from the air. But what my fellow Dragoneers hadn’t 
seen, the Goblins had. Already, a ladder leaned against that section of 
wall with one of their fighters approaching the battlement.  
I shouted to Esgeril, but the din of the fighting drowned out my 
voice. Farean  banked hard and flew straight at the vile creature. I 
tensed as we sped towards the wall, but Farean was an expert flyer. I 
trusted her with my life.  
Mere feet separated the Goblin from Esgeril, but her attention still 
lay on the ground below, trusting th e archers to her left to protect 
her blind side. The Goblin drew its dagger as it closed the gap.  
We weren’t going to make it in time.  
Farean pushed harder. Instead of pulling up and grabbing with her 
feet as I’d expected, she dove.  
Her jaws crunched down and she grabbed the Goblin by its arm. 
Farean shook her head as her prey struggled to get loose. We barely 
cleared Esgeril, who finally turned as our shadow darkened the sky 
above her. She looked around, saw the glistening dagger the Goblin 
had dropped on the wall, and mouthed what looked like a "thank 
you," as we flew away.  
The Goblin struggled, grabbing at Farean’s eye ridge with his free 
arm, trying to gouge her eyeball.  
She chomped down harder, and I heard bones snap as the Goblin 
screamed.  
"Bleh. It tastes terrible ", she said. " What  should  I do with it?" 
"Fly back over the wall and drop it like you did the stone", I suggested.  
In a flash, she banked, sending us back over the heads of the 
attacking Goblin forces.  
187  Ash Rober ts 
 She opened her mouth and the Goblin screa med one last time, 
plummeting to the earth and splatting as a red stain below us, sending 
the trebuchet operators running for cover once again.  
They didn’t have a chance to get another shot off at us before 
Farean veered east, heading for Verlo.  
We soon pu t the camp and the fighting behind us, but this was not 
the way I’d wanted to earn my freedom. Still, I leaned back and 
allowed the wind to blow my hair behind me. I let go entirely, 
trusting the harness to hold me and relished the feeling of flying 
alone in the sky with Farean. There was nothing like it.  
Farean beat her wings harder and we rose higher. The trees 
blurred together into one green mass.  
"What  are you doing?  "I asked" . This is too high." 
"Vernis  says the air moves  faster the higher  we go. We can get help sooner. " 
There was that name again. But I didn’t know any Dragoneer with 
a dragon named Vernis. " Who is Vernis? " 
"The dragon  king. " 
"Dragons  don’t have a king", I said. " Do you? " 
Farean caught a gust of wind that threw us forward, making me 
grab the harness. The ground streaked below us. I held on as tight as 
I could, but conversation stopped while I fought to keep my balance 
in the tempest. Above me the clouds seemed just out of reach. 
Holding on with my right arm, I extended my left, stretc hing my 
fingers to gain that extra half inch, but I wasn’t any closer to the 
fluffy cotton than before.  
Without warning, we fell, my stomach flying upward into my 
chest. The sensation lasted only a second and then Farean climbed 
back to our previous altitu de. She was riding the currents and wind 
streams, pushing our speed to the upper limits. I felt her suppressed 
panic, as well as my own, as she struggled to keep flying as the wind 
tossed us about. But she was doing it. I don’t know how, but she 
was. Final ly, we descended and the battering winds abated a little.  
"Did your Vernis  warn you about that?" I grumbled.  
Royal Dragoneer   188 
 Farean continued to ignore my questions about her mysterious 
king, so I let it go.  
The air calmed, and we slowed. I tried to match the landscape 
below to the maps I’d studied at the castle when my father wasn’t 
shooing me away. If I was right about our location, we were a little 
off course.  
Farean corrected to the south, sensing my thoughts.  
There was another problem, though. We weren’t going to make  it 
before sun set. My limited navigation skills would do us no good in 
the dark, and I hadn’t yet taken the class that taught Dragoneers 
navigation by the stars.  
Sensing my worry, Farean picked up the pace. She inched closer to 
the faster air above us, bu t the turbulence exhausted her. I could feel 
her muscles straining, her wings aching. She continued like that for 
an hour, alternating higher and lower, elevations, supplementing the 
slower air speeds with more effort. With each cycle, I could feel her 
fatigue, her wings taking longer and longer to recover from the 
buffeting winds.  
It seeped into me like a winter’s chill. My eyelids drooped. " We 
need a plan." I told her."  If you keep up like this, we’ll crash and nobody  will 
help the training  camp. " 
"I don’t like the crashing  part, but why must we help? None of them like us." 
"Duty isn’t about people  liking  you, it’s about doing what is right." My 
father’s words flowed from my lips. And dammit, he was right. " We 
are Dragoneers. ” I told Farean proudly.  "More than that, I am a princess  to 
these people.  And you are the royal dragon . We have to do our best to protect  
them. It’s what rulers do." 
"The dragon  king is my ruler", she insisted. " But maybe  if we save them, 
they’ll  like us." She sounded hopeful and I rea lized, for the first time, 
that the rejection by the other Dragoneers had really been getting to 
her. How had I not seen that, or felt it.  
"You were having  a hard enough  time without  worrying  about me", she said. 
"Good dragons  don’t worry their riders unless they have to." "But now maybe  
189  Ash Rober ts 
 worry.  I don’t know if we can make it. I’m tired and my wings ache. Can’t  we 
land for just a little bit? 
Without realizing it, we’d left the forests behind. Fields full of 
haystacks sprawled below, dotting the landscape wit h fluffy golden 
circles. Maybe a quick nap in one would help. Farean started 
coasting. " Yes, sleep would  be just the thing". 
But I knew we couldn’t, as tempting as it was. If we stopped, we’d 
never be able to find the training camp in the dark.  
"I have an idea," I said to Farean. " Keep flying. " 
One of the things Flatch had taught me was that aching muscles 
were caused when muscle fibers tore from overuse. If our healing 
magic could knit broken bones and dispel bruises, then restoring 
muscles shouldn’t be th at hard.  
I reached out to Farean’s shoulders where her great muscles flexed 
with each beat. Taking a deep breath, the magic pulsed through my 
hands and into her body. Unlike the other times we had healed each 
other, there was no obvious damage to see repai red. I just kept 
pushing the healing light into her until my own arms began to 
tremble.  
"Enough.  You’ll  hurt yourself.  " 
"Was it enough  though?  "I slowly pushed myself upright. " I can give 
you more." My arms quivered in protest at the mere suggestion of it  
but I didn’t care.  
"I’m good. But you aren’t.  Remember,  we both need to make it there. I won’t 
do any good delivering  them a dead Dragoneer. " As if to prove her point, she 
gained speed, flying faster than we ever had before.  
I let her fly; only occasional ly pointing out landmarks to keep our 
course. Slowly, I regained my energy while Farean lost hers to 
exertion. We landed once for water, but otherwise stayed aloft the 
entire trip. I healed her weary muscles twice more, and each time it 
took more out of me . Finally, as the sun dipped towards the horizon 
behind us, we saw the high walls of Verlo in the distance. As we 
slowed for landing, I lost my grip. I had nothing left and just dangled 
limply from the harness.  
Royal Dragoneer   190 
 My mind barely registered as hands loosened m y harness buckles 
and lifted me off Farean’s back.  
"I—" My mind was having trouble coming up with words, or even 
coherent thoughts. "I need to see General Lutania." The Dragoneers 
transferred me to a stretcher and as they carried me from my dragon, 
I looke d back to her entire body trembling as they brought her a side 
of beef to eat.  
I think I must have passed out, because the next thing I knew a 
scratchy voice said, "Princess Kalia, I’m right here. But you’re half 
dead, poor girl. Get the healers for her. S he’s in no condition to tell 
me anything."  
A hand appeared in front of my face, holding a sweet -smelling 
herb to my mouth.  
I pushed it away. My news couldn’t wait. I needed to tell him now.  
But the hand was stronger than mine. He pressed the herb 
between m y lips and someone commanded, "Eat it!"  
I swallowed, and the little willpower I had to stay awake seeped 
from me.  
 
 
 
"Kalia,  you’re  awake "! Farean screeched in my head like a toddler 
reunited with her favor ite toy.  
I opened my eyes to a dimly lit room with stone walls that gleamed 
from years of being scrubbed. The air smelled like the astringent 
healers used to keep their work spaces clean.  
As the fog in my head cleared, I suddenly remembered my 
purpose and sat up. The room swirled for a minute before steadying. 
"I need to speak to General Lutania, immediately," I said to no one.  
"Kalia," a voice said from behind me. More slowly this time, I 
turned to find the General herself sitting in a chair in the corner,  her 
ankle propped up on her opposite knee like a man.  
"How long have I been asleep?" I demanded. The windowless 
room gave me no cues  
"Only an hour," she said. "I’ve been here the entire time. I 
assumed you’d want to speak to me as soon as you woke. No one  
rides themselves and their dragon into the ground like that for less 
than something dire. But I’m curious why you look like the one that 
had carried her."  
I bit my lip and studied the wooden floorboards. I didn’t want to 
reveal my secret. I was considered  enough of a freak already.  
"I’ve been around Dragoneers a long time," she said, seeing my 
hesitancy. "I suspect I already know. You’re not the only Dragoneer 
to have such a trait. And you’re wise, I believe, to keep to yourself as 
much as possible.  
"So, I wasn’t  the only Dragoneer  to be able to heal with magic? " Well, that 
was both a relief and raised a lot of questions.  
Royal Dragoneer   192 
 Here," she handed me a small pouch exuding a familiar smell. 
"This herb will help restore you when you’ve overextended yourself. 
It’s lik e stimleaf but much more powerful. Don’t use it unless you 
must. For some people, it can be addictive."  
I took the pouch and stuffed it in an inner pocket, thanking her. 
But there were more important things at hand.  
"Sir," I said, "Tulta is under attack by  Goblins." Then, I quickly 
detailed what I knew about their numbers and weapons. I finished by 
relaying my assessment of their ability to break our gate and wall 
defenses within two days’ time.  
"This is grave news, indeed." She stood and made for the door.  
"Stay here, while I mobilize the Dragoneers."  
Soon after he left, the great bell clanged. Habit ingrained in me 
from months of drilling brought me to my feet. The room wobbled, 
and I put a hand on the cot to steady myself. I swallowed a pinch of 
the herb that Lutania had given me. It took a couple more attempts 
to cross the room, but I was a little less dizzy each time.  
I moved to the door and down a hall to an arched exit. Torches lit 
the area outside. I made it to the parade field just as the General 
concluded her announcement. Dragoneers raced past me, hurrying to 
prepare for their cross -country journey. The General spotted me and 
intercepted me on my way to Farean. "Go back to bed. I commend 
you on doing whatever it took to get the news to us, but su ch acts 
come at a cost. You’ve done your part. Now rest."  
I shook my head. "I have to go back and help. Those are my 
friends dying out there. Well, at least one is a friend. I think."  
She put his hand on my shoulder. "Princess, your father has 
ordered us t o keep you out of danger."  
"This again?  First Authand  and now the General. " 
"Sir, my father kicked me out of my home and left me to lodge 
with a swineherd," I said bitterly. "He does not care about my well -
being." Months had passed since that day, but bile  still rose in my 
throat recalling it.  
193  Ash Rober ts 
 "You mean a swineherd that worked for him?" The General asked, 
a glint in her eye. "With a chambermaid daughter who just happened 
to find you in the rain and offer her help."  
My mouth opened. I hadn’t told anyone abou t that. "You mean 
my father arranged that?" I asked, angrily. Somehow that knowledge 
made the whole thing worse. Why throw me out and publicly 
humiliate me, only to help me behind the scenes? I’ll tell you why. He 
still wanted power over me, to keep me fro m becoming a true 
Dragoneer.  
"Listen, I’m going," I told her. "Throw me in the Caves after this 
is over if you have to, but for now I have a duty to uphold."  
He looked away before removing his hand. "I can’t allow you to 
go." 
"But—" 
He held up a hand. "I c an’t allow you. But I’m obviously much 
too busy to actively stop you. Just try not to get yourself killed."  
I nodded. "Thank you."  
Before I even called, Farean was landing by my side.  
I climbed onto her, fastening the harness as we lifted from the 
ground. She wheeled up to the faster higher winds immediately this 
time, the moons in the sky providing enough illumination to navigate 
by. 
"Vernis  showed  me the way home". Farean said.  
"Well, lead the way then," I said, knowing better than to question her 
imaginary king.  
The return trip was better than our earlier flight. We had a tailwind 
this time, and Farean was getting better at utilizing the higher winds. 
The ride was smooth enough that I was able to nap a bit on her back. 
We didn’t stop once, and I on ly had to heal her twice. After the 
second time though, I took a bite of the herb the General had given 
me, feeling the energy surge down my throat and into my limbs. We 
didn’t see or hear the General’s Dragoneers behind us the entire trip, 
but I knew they  were coming.  
Royal Dragoneer   194 
 At last, toward dawn, we came in over the lake to give ourselves 
an entrance clear of Goblins and their flinging boulders. As we 
approached, I saw twelve of dragons stretched out around the 
pavilions with healers working over them to tend bro ken wings and 
other injuries. A dozen downed dragons and riders was a heavy battle 
toll. 
As Farean’s talons hit the ground, we narrowly missed being hit by 
another Goblin missile.  
I dismounted and sought out Authand while Farean lapped water 
from the lake.  Portions of the wall had crumbled, but it still repelled 
our invaders. I doubted the General’s Dragoneers would reach us for 
another six hours. And the wall might not hold that long.  
I found Authand in his office with most of the other instructors. 
Floria n and a second year I didn’t recognize stood guard at the door.  
"What are you doing back?" She taunted. "Did it get too scary out 
there, and you came running back to safety?"  
"That doesn’t even make sense," I responded. "If I was looking 
for safety, why wo uld I return to a battle? This has got to be the least 
safe place in all of Darneta right now." I took a step forward, but 
Florian pulled her short sword and blocked my path. Belatedly, the 
other girl, Zimaelan according to the name badge on her leathers, 
pulled hers as well.  
"The Colonel said no one was allowed in. And I’m certainly not 
going to let a coward like you waste his time."  
I pulled my own sword from its sheath. "That’s the last time you 
insult me. Get out of my way, or I will remove you myself."  I 
couldn’t take the both of them, but I was hoping Zimaelan would 
bail. Or maybe even help me.  
Florian snarled and tightened her grip, her face contorting in a way 
that confirmed the orc heritage I had long suspected. We eyed each 
other, waiting to see if  the other would make the first move.  
"Kalia? What are you doing here? Get your butt in here." Both of 
our heads snapped at the sound of Authand’s voice. "What in the 
195  Ash Rober ts 
 ancestors’ name are you both doing with your swords out? Put them 
away. And Kalia, why ar en’t you inside already?"  
I sheathed my sword as I pushed past Florian who also hurried to 
comply. I barely made it through the doorway before Authand 
slammed it behind me.  
"What are you doing back? Not that I don’t remember you 
disobeyed a direct order. I  do. But since you did, I was hoping you’d 
accomplish something worthwhile for my troubles. Instead, you’re 
back her with no help to show for it," He punched the wall with his 
hook. It embedded a full three inches into the wood. He pulled but 
the harness t hat attached the device to his arm came loose instead, 
leaving the straps dangling next to my head.  
I flinched away from it. The contraption seemed even more 
intimidating when it was disembodied from him.  
He moved me aside with his stump and pulled at it w ith his good 
hand. "Well?" He wrestled with his hook. "Answer me, dammit."  
"I did accomplish something," I said. "I made it there just before 
dark. The General and the others should be here in about six hours."  
"Dragon dung!" The hook came free from the wa ll. He held it 
under his arm and cleaned the debris from it before reattaching it. 
"No one can fly that fast without killing their dragon. And Korth 
says Farean is currently down by the lake alive and well. Don’t lie to 
me, girl. If we’re all going to die here, I need to know it."  
"Maybe she’s just faster than your fat old dragon." Outside Korth 
roared. I’d like to see you do half of what I can"," Farean shot back at an 
insult I couldn’t hear.  
Authand’s eyes narrowed. His stare seemed to crawl inside my 
brain and claw at the soft tissue. I’d be seeing those eyes in my 
nightmares. "You’re telling me you flew all night and beat an 
experienced Dragoneer force, with some of the fastest dragons in the 
seven kingdoms, back here by six hours?"  
"I—Yes," I said lamel y. Now I was caught between explaining my 
magic or digging myself into a deeper hole.  
Royal Dragoneer   196 
 Thankfully, I was saved from having to make that decision by 
Lewon bursting through the door. "Calen said you called for me, 
sir?" 
He stopped short when he saw me standin g there. It was always 
awkward between us now. But then he turned to Authand, waiting 
for orders.  
Authand looked at me, calculating, weighing my worth and the 
possibility that what I was claiming was the truth.  
"Kalia claims she and Farean made it to Verlo  and returned in one 
night, and that reinforcements are on their way."  
"That’s not possible," Lewon said. "No one is that fast."  
"That’s what I said," Authand agreed.  
"What could it possibly gain me to lie about this?" I asked 
earnestly, eyeing Lewon, remi nding him with my eyes that we’d both 
seen how Farean could fly when we’d escaped Roland. And maybe it 
would occur to him that I could heal her fatigue.  
"Well, it’s highly unlikely," Lewon said, caving a little. "But 
technically possible."  
"I can’t stake t he camp’s survival on an unlikely possibility," 
Authand said. "But it really doesn’t matter. We don’t have six hours. 
The wall will fall before then. We need to evacuate the injured 
through the tunnel. I will not leave Dragons here to be Goblin meat."  
Lewo n shook his head. "The entire camp is surrounded, except on 
the lakeside, sir. We come out of those tunnels, and the greyskins will 
be waiting for us."  
"We need a distraction," I said.  
"Farean seems pretty good at catching those rocks." Authand 
pointed out  the window to where my dragon had taken to the sky 
without me. As we watched, she caught another of the airborne 
boulders and dropped it back over the wall. "You and she could 
concentrate a barrage surrounding the tunnel exit. It might scare 
them off long  enough for an escape effort."  
I swallowed. The Colonel must be very desperate to defy the order 
from my father to keep me out of harm’s way. Then again, the 
197  Ash Rober ts 
 General had ignored it too. Desperate times called for desperate 
measures.  
"We can do it, sir," I said. "We won’t let you down."  
"Calen and I will help," Lewon said. I suspected he was offering so 
he could keep an eye on me, rather than out of any altruistic feelings, 
but I’d take it.  
Farean and I waited for Lewon to be ready before taking to the 
air. We would have to time our efforts precisely once we reached the 
tunnel exit leading into the forest, but Calen and Farean could mind -
speak to one another, so that would help. The thought crossed my 
mind to "miss" one of the rocks that would be lobbed at th em. But 
Father taught me to never stoop to the level of my enemies.  
Once in the air, Farean quickly caught a rock. The Goblins seemed 
to have caught on to our tactics, however, and followed with a volley 
of arrows. Farean dropped the rock to maneuver aroun d the 
onslaught, and it fell into the camp, sending those below running. It 
had almost hit Florian, and I had no doubt she’d think it had been 
intentional.  
Farean pulled out of her spin beyond the range of the archers. 
She’d managed to protect her wings an d underbelly, but a few arrows 
had lodged between her scales.  
I reached down, pulling them out and sent a quick shot of healing 
energy through her.  
We circled above the camp assessing the situation.  
Lewon and Calen weren’t having any more luck catching roc ks 
than we were. The Goblins were now ignoring us and focusing on 
bringing down the last vestiges of the crumbling wall. Our original 
plan wasn’t going to work.  
"We have to change  the plan". I told Farean. " Rocks  aren’t  going to work,  
but we have to pull the Goblins  away from the tunnel. " 
"Capture  the flag". Farean said, sending images of the game flashing 
in my head.  
"Oh, you’re  brilliant,  "I praised her."  Let’s go." "And be sure to tell Calen  
what we’re up to." 
Royal Dragoneer   198 
 Selkerdrim hadn’t let us onto the playing fi eld since we lost the 
game that first day, but that hadn’t kept Farean and I from practicing 
by ourselves.  
We flew up high, above any possible attack, then wide around the 
battle. I heard Florian’s shrill voice as we retreated. The words were 
lost to the w ind, but I guessed her message. She thought I was 
running away from the battle. Which I was, sort of. But only for a 
moment.  
Once Farean and I were well away from the action, we dove 
beneath the trees and made for the rear flank nearest the tunnel exit. 
Capture the flag was a game of stealth. And if we’d been allowed to 
play, the Blues would have discovered that Farean could navigate the 
forest without disturbing a single twig. But the game was more than 
stealth. It was also about cunning strategy. Lewon ha d taught us that 
the hard way, showing us his team flag, supposedly unguarded and 
easy pickings. He’s lured us to an ambush we’d never seen coming. 
And that’s exactly what we hoped to do to the Goblins.  
"Calen  and Lewon  are ready", Farean said. " They’ve  found a clearing  that 
will work,  and Calen  has shown  me where it is." 
"Then let’s go," I told her.  
She flew forward and we came upon the Goblins rear line near the 
tunnel exit. It was hidden, so they didn’t know it was there. And 
thankfully, they’d left gaps  between each soldier, so we took 
advantage of that.  
Farean picked off the first before we’d even been spotted, heaving 
him in the air to land with a discernable crunch.  
The second Goblin saw us at the last second. She twisted just out 
of Farean’s reach an d pulled her sword. I pulled out my own as we 
pivoted around a branch. We came at her again upside down. The 
Goblin’s thrust was awkward, our orientation seeming to throw her 
off. I had no such problems, this being one of the few things I’d 
practiced that I was actually good at.  
I parried her thrust and used her momentum against her. Her 
blade came free of her hands and slammed into her face. Blood 
199  Ash Rober ts 
 gushed from her nose. A cry escaped her lips but fell short. I looked 
behind to see Farean’s tail tinged in bl ood and the warrior slumping 
to the ground.  
The next few gave us little problem. With the rear guards 
dispatched, our task became more difficult as the Goblin soldiers 
came at us in clustered groups, turning away from the camp wall and 
pushing toward us fo r their turn in the fray. Which was exactly what 
we’d hoped for.  
"Pull back," I told Farean. " It’s time to offer them our flag." 
Farean flew away into the forest, just beyond sight of the 
encroaching Goblins, and I grabbed one of the arrows I’d pulled 
from  between her scales earlier.  
"Couldn’t  you just pretend? " I begged her, looking at the sharp tip of 
the arrow.  
"They’ll  suspect  a trap if they don’t smell my blood,  "she said. " Now do it!" 
"You know you can heal me afterwards. " 
I raised my fist, clutching the arrow, and plunged it into the joint 
where her right wing met her body.  
She cried out, and flapped the wing, quivering with pain.  
"I’m sorry. I’m so sorry," I told her as her injured wing dropped 
limply to her side.  
Three Goblins came charging at us, t heir dark eyes taking in the 
scene —a dragon who had just killed numerous of their brethren, 
suddenly at their mercy with a grounding injury. I saw them all raise 
their snouts in unison, sniffing at my dragon’s lifeblood.  
Farean whirled, running awkwardly, dragging her wing behind her. 
I looked back to see her whacking Goblins aside with her tail, but 
they were gaining on us and there were more coming. I could see the 
bloodlust and hunger in their eyes. There was nothing a Goblin loved 
more than an injured, helpless, dragon.  
Farean crashed through the underbrush, galloping between trees 
and through bushes. And I held on to her for dear life, but I was 
doing more than that. I had my hands on her wing joint, sending 
healing energy into her as fast and hard as I  could.  
Royal Dragoneer   200 
 And then the forest opened up into a large clearing, full of tall 
yellow grasses and blue meadow flowers, like a place you’d expect to 
find a unicorn, not stop to face your inevitable death.  
Farean ran -wobbled to the far end of the clearing and tur ned to 
face the Goblin onslaught.  
Goblins filled the meadow, charging at us in a huge mob.  
And then the air was full of dragons, dropping from the trees like 
rabid stones. Every uninured Dragon and rider that wasn’t helping 
with the evacuation had fled the  camp and come here to our ambush.  
Calen and Lewon took out a Goblin just as he raised an ax to us.  
No one else even got close.  
"Pull out the arrow, " Farean said, and I looked down to see that her 
joint wound was already healing, forming scar tissue that h ad almost 
pushed the arrow out.  
I grabbed it and tugged it the rest of the way, happy to hear her 
sigh with relief.  
The pretty yellow meadow grass and blue flowers were now 
strewn with Goblin blood and corpses.  
"The Goblins just breached the camp wall," Le won said, landing 
next to us. "But Florian’s Masta reports that the evacuees are out of 
the tunnel and all headed to safety thanks to your quick thinking and 
Farean’s acting skills. Good plan," he said, giving me a nod of 
grudging respect.  
"Actually, it wa s your plan," I pointed out. "I just used it better."  
 
 
 
We were all congratulating ourselves on a clean victory, when I 
noticed a dragon silhouette in the sky flying towards us. The Colonel 
was easily reco gnizable on his huge dragon, but Korth wasn’t flying 
well at all. He’s been hit by multiple arrows, and there were visible 
tears in his wings.  
The Orange dragon howled and pitched to the right. Broken 
harness straps dangled uselessly, and Authand held on f or dear life 
with his one hand. Then Korth pitched the other way suddenly, and 
Authand lost his grip.  
The Colonel tumbled free of his dragon.  
Korth snatched at his rider, trying to catch him, but with his wing 
askew he missed. Korth shrieked with fury and tried again but 
couldn’t keep up with Authand’s free fall.  
"Farean," I shouted and pointed. Without looking, she took off 
towards the Colonel. Her wings pounded against the air, pushing us 
even faster than when we had ridden the great air current. The wind  
hurt my face but still we pushed onward, the gap between us and him 
closing with each beat.  
Her claws glanced off his armor before she snagged his arm. His 
momentum fought against ours and I could hear the pop of his 
shoulder coming free of its socket fro m my perch. His scream was 
echoed by Korth who coasted into the meadow, joining the other 
Dragoneers.  
There must have been one lone Goblin left in the woods —an 
archer who hadn’t fallen for our trap or run for the camp wall. 
Unfortunately, he was also a ver y good shot.  
Royal Dragoneer   202 
 Slowed from the Colonel’s added weight, Farean couldn’t dodge 
his arrow, and it struck her just below her heart.  
"Farean! " I cried out, clutching at my chest, feeling the sharp pain 
as if the arrow had pierced me.  
She glided out of the archer’ s range, taking us over the lake where 
no Goblins dared go.  
Below us, the Colonel swung in the wind, moaning on the edge of 
consciousness. Somewhere behind us in the clearing, Korth hissed 
and screeched for his injured rider. I calculated the distance. We were 
losing too much altitude to make it back there.  
"He’s too heavy, " Farean complained, pain tinging her voice. " I’m 
going to drop him." 
"No, you’re  not", I said, but I could feel her straining not to lose her 
grip. Boy, wouldn’t we be the talk of the Dr agoneers for years to 
come if we dropped the Colonel on his head from three hundred feet 
up. We’d never live that down.  
I had to do something, so I unhooked my harness. My hands 
shook as they manipulated the oiled buckles. Thoughts of falling 
from Farean’s  back filled my head, but I pushed them aside.  
I loosened the final buckle. For the first time in months of flying, 
nothing held me to Farean’s back. I inched towards her chest, making 
sure of each handhold before letting go of the other. My feet found 
her foreleg. I balanced myself on her extended limb while I crouched 
to grab at her with my arms.  
She hit a pocket of air and dropped suddenly, pitching me 
forward. Thankfully, my waving arms caught the same leg I had been 
standing on. I struggled to regain m y perch, one flailing foot 
knocking the Colonel in the head.  
The impact jostled him to semi -consciousness. His eyes went wide 
when he looked up and saw me dangling above him on Farean’s leg, 
both of us hundreds of feet in the air.  
"Uh, hi," I said.  
"Kalia,  what are you doing?" he said, his words slurred a little. 
"Get back in your harness."  
203  Ash Rober ts 
 "Grab my hand," I said, reaching out for him. I knew it was his 
good arm that had been dislocated when Farean caught him. He was 
going to have to reach up with his hook and that might get painful 
for me.  
"I can’t do that," he said, realizing the same thing.  
"If you don’t, Farean is going to drop you," I said. I could see her 
talons slipping loose. He must have been able to feel it.  
"She can drop me over the lake," he said . "From this height, there 
is a good probability I would live."  
"I need more than a good probability," I said, shaking my open 
hand at him. "My hand will heal."  
"Okay," he nodded. "On the count of three."  
"One," I said. "Two. Three."  
I reached down, and he  thrust up, his hook catching over most of 
my fingers, but the point dug into my pinky and tore through it.  
I didn’t scream or make a noise. If Farean could fly with an arrow 
in her chest, I could handle a little hook in the pinky.  
I yanked the Colonel up with all my strength, pain shooting 
through my hand, arm and shoulder. But he was up, wobbling on her 
leg joint next to me.  
I yanked my hand back, pulling his hook from my flesh, and we 
both scrambled into the one -person harness. It was awkward and 
tight, but he got us both tied in.  
"Help me now", Farean said, her voice sounding weird and weak.  
I took a deep breath. I’d wanted to keep my power a secret, but 
my dragon needed me. I closed my eyes and called the power forth. I 
heard Authand gasp when my hands began to glow. With my pulsing 
hands on Farean’s back ridge, I send my energy in looking for the 
arrow in her chest. I should be able to push it out, just like I had the 
one I’d jammed into her wing joint. But this one was much deeper, 
and it was bleeding so much more.  
Blood dripping from the wound whipped upwards on the wind, 
splattering my face.  
Royal Dragoneer   204 
 But I could feel the broken shaft pushing away from her and 
poking above her scales. I paused my healing long enough to lean 
over her neck and feel for it with my  fingers.  
The arrow head came loose from the wound and I grabbed it, 
tossing it away. Farean took a few tentative flaps, but we continued 
to lose altitude.  
"She can’t carry two riders," Authand said. "Most dragons can’t."  
"The shore is not too far," I told  him. "She can make it."  
"I can make it", Farean agreed.  
"I’m not crash -landing on your little dragon," The Colonel said 
stubbornly, untying the harness ropes.  
"What are you —" he was jumping before I could finish my 
sentence, his splash dousing me as he hi t the lake with a smack.  
Well, he’d only had to drop a few feet, and if anyone could swim 
to shore with a dislocated shoulder, the Colonel could.  
I looked back to make sure he was okay, and he waved his hook at 
me. 
"Farean,  make sure Korth  knows  where his rider is. "I suggested.  
"I already  have", she said, " he’s leading  a rescue  team to the beach. " 
My foot dragged in the water as Farean skimmed over the surface.  
"Up, "I encouraged her, now that we’d gotten rid of all the extra 
weight.  
She pulled up and flew  to the lakeshore easily, landing in the soft 
sand.  
"I could have made it with him", she said indignantly. " He didn’t  need to 
jump. " 
"I know", I said, rubbing her between the ears like she loved.  
Suddenly, the concussion of an explosion cracked the sky, co ming 
from the direction of the camp. The ground rumbled and shook 
under our feet.  
"What  was that?" I asked, as Farean leapt into the sky.  
We flew cautiously toward the direction of that awful sound, 
Farean staying high enough that nothing could hit us. As we flew 
over the camp, I saw the smoking crater where a section of the north 
205  Ash Rober ts 
 wall had once been. The Goblins were already inside, but they  must 
have found a stash of firerock and were going to use it to level the 
camp and everything in it.  
The sky above us darkened, and I looked up to see a swarm of red 
dragons descending through the clouds toward the camp, their 
archers spitting arrows. The  Dragoneers had arrived. But the Goblins 
still had the firerock. I didn’t want to imagine what one of those 
stones could do to a dragon. Still, two could play at that game. I had 
a piece of the explosive rock myself. I’d gotten so distracted that day 
with Lewon that I’d never reported its existence.  
Taking advantage of the momentary distraction, Farean and I flew 
towards our salvation. We skimmed the surface of the water to the 
beach. I started unfastening the buckles in preparation of landing 
while keeping  an eye out.  
Unfortunately, A Goblin lookout spotted us. I could see him 
waving his arms and shouting at his compatriots.  
"Farean,  if we fly over, can you grab it?" 
"Vernis  says that if my talons  scratch  it, it will ignite. " 
"Damn, " I said, stealing Authan d’s favorite epithet. Most of the 
Goblin archers were engaged with the Dragoneers. Even if they saw 
us, they wouldn’t be able to maintain continuous fire towards the 
beach. We twisted away and circled back. "Well, it’s about time I 
caught that glove."  
We f einted a few times to get a good feel for the rhythm of their 
shooting. There was a ten second gap between the end of one volley 
and the beginning of the next. Ten seconds wasn’t much. Farean 
would have to be traveling at full speed while I tried to pry a rock out 
of the dirt from her back. To make matters worse, in order to get 
into position, she would have to rotate at the last minute, leaving me 
completely exposed to errant arrows.  
I waited for another volley to pass. How many arrows had they 
brought wit h them. Surely, they’d have to run out soon.  
The archers took their usual pause, and we dove from our position 
in the trees. We sped for the red veined rock glittering in the filtered 
Royal Dragoneer   206 
 sunlight, each powerful beat of Farean’s wings propelling us towards 
the ground. I breathed deeply, forcing myself to relax.  
Three seconds until the next arrow volley.  
Two seconds.  
Farean flipped upside.  
One second.  
I extended my arms over my head towards the ground. Or was it 
under my head?  
My fingers touched the rock. For a breath, I thought I’d missed it, 
but it came free of the ground and into my hands as Farean 
completed her rotation.  
Another beat of her wings pushed us away.  
An arrow brushed past my face, just kissing my skin.  
I put my hand to the wound and nearly dropped  the stone. I 
tucked the head -sized rock under my arm and then felt for the cut 
again, my fingers coming away wet with blood. But it was only a 
small wound. We’d been damn lucky.  
Farean rose back above the trees, well beyond the range of the 
archers. The b attle had become a stalemate. Dragonback archers 
were keeping the Goblins from their war machine, but likewise, they 
were keeping us from getting close enough to do real damage.  
I searched for Lewon and Calen in the crowd of Dragoneers, but I 
didn’t see th em anywhere. Perhaps they were with the Colonel and 
the injured wherever they were hiding. When I asked Farean if she 
could locate Calen, she shook her head and flashed me a jumbled 
image of Lewon and Calen fighting alongside Goblins.  
"What  was that?" I as ked her, confused.  
"Don’t  know", she said. " I lost him." 
Could Dragons block one another? And if so, what were Lewon 
and Calen up to? Lewon was a jerk who had sold me to a gangster to 
pay his debts, but he wouldn’t side with the enemy over his own 
kind, wo uld he? Goblins had massacred his village. He’d told me that. 
Of course, it could have been a lie.  
207  Ash Rober ts 
 I pushed those thoughts aside and looked for the General instead. 
She was easy to find on the back of her great mountain of a dragon. 
I’d heard rumors , but they hadn’t done the huge creature justice. 
Flarnor made Korth look like a baby. If the Orange dragon flew in 
front of the sun, I was sure it would plunge the day into darkness. 
How did something that big even get off the ground?  
"Sheer force of will ," The General shouted as they closed the 
distance between us. "I trust this isn’t a social call."  
I shook my head and held up the firerock.  
She recoiled from it before regaining his composure. "Aren’t you 
the resourceful one?" They flew even closer, and u sing dragon -
thought to keep from being overheard, we formulated a plan.  
The General and her dragon broke away, and two greens came up 
to escort us. They were larger than Calen, but not half as large as 
Flarnor or even Korth. We had to be a sight, with our mismatched 
dragons, but no other Blue in the fleet was as agile as Farean.  
The Red -mounted archers focused on the Goblin rangers. 
Meanwhile, the more massive Oranges, replete with their bronze 
belly armor, created a barrier the Goblin arrows simply bounced  off 
of. The other Blues and Greens harried the ground forces from the 
flanks.  
With all the attention on the archers, the Goblin’s trebuchet’s 
platoon was left unmolested. Realizing this, they resumed their work 
loading firerock into the bucket. Aimed at e ither the Dragoneers or 
the camp, the damage would be devastating.  
And it was my job to keep that from happening. I looked from left 
to right, nodding to each rider in turn. We dove towards our target. 
The two Greens crisscrossed in front of me, providing cover for me 
while simultaneously making themselves harder to hit.  
I led from the rear of the formation, guiding Farean with nudges 
from my feet. These directions were passed to the other two via the 
dragons’ psychic communication. Together, we moved as if  a single 
organism.  
Royal Dragoneer   208 
 The trebuchet team noticed us and doubled their efforts to 
prepare the machine. The gap between us continued to close. I 
needed to get within fifty feet to accurately hit either the weapon or 
its ammunition. Closer than that, though, an d we would be caught in 
the explosion.  
The Greens parted, leaving us unprotected but clear to take the 
shot. The Goblin Corporal looked up, her mouth open. The ruse had 
worked; they hadn’t noticed Farean or my deadly cargo at all.  
Our escort gone, we banke d, allowing me an unencumbered view 
of the target. I could make out the individual fibers of the ropes 
holding it together. I shook my head. That level of detail shouldn’t be 
visible from this distance. I set the mystery aside for now. If I missed 
now, the re would be no second chance.  
I aimed for the heart of the machine, where I had the least chance 
of missing it entirely. With my newly enhanced vision, I couldn’t tell, 
but we seemed to be closer than I had wanted. There was nothing to 
be done for it now, and I lobbed the firerock at the trebuchet. No 
sooner than it cleared my hands and Farean banked and beat 
furiously away.  
I heard the explosion behind us and turned to look just as the 
shockwave hit us. The force completely overpowered Farean and we 
went t umbling head over tail. The turbulence passed but not before 
forcing us into an oak. I felt the crack of her wing bone though our 
bond before I heard the snap with my ears.  
Even though it wasn’t mine, the pain dulled my senses. I knew I 
needed to get out t here and heal the break, but an aching pain in my 
chest seeped my energy and sapped my will. I looked down, 
expecting to be injured but my harness was intact. Something was 
wrong, but I couldn’t figure out what because I was suddenly 
overwhelmed with exhau stion.  
Four green claws descended in front of us, the owner of each pair 
picking a side. The dragon on the right grabbed gingerly at the 
broken wing, taking care to support it in front of the break. The 
dragon on the left hooked on to the other side a mome nt later.  
209  Ash Rober ts 
 Farean seemed to be as affected by the explosion as I and hung 
limply in their embrace.  

 
 
 
The dragons lowered us to the ground with practiced ease. Hands 
unbuckled my harness and pulled me up from  my prone position 
over Farean’s neck ridge. They lifted me off her back and walked me 
around to her broken wing.  
In an instant, the fog and fatigue lifted. My dragon was hurt. I 
needed to do something.  
The healer, Tulowa pushed his way through the crowd a nd 
ordered the bystanders to help straighten Farean’s wing. As they 
worked, he shook his head and muttered, "It’s a bad break. She may 
not fly again."  
I couldn’t accept that. Farean would never accept that. She was 
born to fly. And I certainly wouldn’t acc ept that prognosis if there 
was something I could do that would guarantee her recovery.  
I pulled free of the Green riders holding me up, the same 
Dragoneers who had escorted me on the attack against the trebuchet. 
I ran to Farean’s side. The healer shouted , and his helpers grabbed at 
me. 
"Leave her be!" Authand shouted, the crowd parting for him. 
"That’s her dragon." His dislocated arm hung in a sling but, 
otherwise, he seemed to be no worse for our rescue.  
"She has no medical training," Tulowa said. He cro ssed his arms 
and squared off against the Colonel. "Her proximity will only make 
things worse."  
"Or it could comfort her dragon." Authand nodded at the men 
trying to straighter her wing as Farean writhed in agony.  
"Fine."  Tulowa nodded at his helpers, and they let me go.  
Royal Dragoneer   212 
 I called forth the magic even as I ran to her. Golden sparks flew 
from the ends of my fingertips into the leathery skin that covered her 
wing. Then I was by her side, kneeling at the break and making 
physi cal contact. The crowd grew quiet as they watched me heal my 
dragon. I could feel the bone knit back together under my hands. 
Satisfied the wing was repaired, I sat back and panted.  
"That should do it, dear. Give it a try."  
She made a halfhearted motion wi th it but otherwise continued to 
languish on the ground. I scratched at the persistent itch I’d had since 
the explosion while I tried to get her to respond.  
I examined her body but didn’t see anything wrong until I noticed 
a patch of red seeping from benea th her.  
"Help me roll her over," I shouted over my shoulder. I didn’t wait 
but started pushing at her side. "Turn on your side," I begged her.  
Tulowa’s assistants stood beside me, two on each side, and helped. 
Even the doctor himself joined the effort.  
Farean’s feeble attempts slowed and more of the Dragoneers 
joined us. Authand pressed his back against her side and pushed. 
Esgeril forced herself through the crowd and slid between the medic 
and me, placing her small hand over mine. She gave me a brief smile  
before turning to the attention at hand.  
Slowly, we rolled Farean over to her side. Splinters from the 
trebuchet laced her stomach and chest, but that wasn’t the problem. 
A section of the mast, too large to be considered a splinter, 
protruded from her che st. As thick as my arm, it had driven through 
her scales and dangerously close to her heart.  
I grabbed it with both hands and yanked. It didn’t give. I put my 
hands higher on it for leverage, ready to try again.  
Tulowa grabbed my hands and shook his head. "If you remove it, 
she will bleed out."  
"I can heal her." I said.  
"Maybe," he said. "But if the beam has pierced her heart, she will 
be dead before your magic even starts."  
213  Ash Rober ts 
 Tears welled in my eyes. "But she’ll die if I don’t." I choked back a 
sob. "What ca n I do?"  
Esgeril spoke in her, sweet, lilting southlands accent. "What if we 
pull it out slowly? She could she heal Farean’s body right behind us."  
I looked to the doctor. He scratched at his chin before speaking. 
"That could work. But you’ll have to be fa st." 
The magic surged back to my hands. "Then what are we waiting 
for?" Sparks danced from my fingertips above Farean’s hide. I 
pressed against her flesh. The faint heart beat shocked me. Where 
was the strong thrumming that soothed me to sleep on so many 
nights?  
Tulowa gripped the shaft near where it entered her. The largest of 
his assistants grabbed hold of the remainder. A hand touched my 
shoulder. I spared a glance to see Esgeril standing behind me, 
offering support.  
As they pulled, I willed the magic de ep into her body. They pulled 
slowly, inch by inch, but I still wasn’t healing her fast enough. Blood 
seeped and then gushed out of her body. I pressed harder. The 
wound and my hands grew hot.  
The broken trebuchet piece came free. I stuck my hand in the 
opening it produced, begging the blood to stop pouring out of her. 
Unbidden, I thought of Theron and how I’d run and hid in my room 
when he slaughtered his pigs. He wouldn’t recognize that sheltered 
and afraid girl kneeling here covered in dragon’s blood.  
The magic burned through me. Burning flesh filled my nostrils 
and I realized with a start that it was my own. The blood seemed to 
be slowing, but I couldn’t hear Farean anymore. After nearly a year of 
her taking up residence in my head, she was gone.  
"Come  on, don’t give up. "Tears streaked the dirt and blood that 
plastered my face. Behind me, Esgeril gripped my shoulder tighter. 
The voices of the Elves and dragons around us muffled into 
nothingness. My vision narrowed. Nothing existed but the blue 
dragon bef ore me, my hands deep in her body and Esgeril’s on mine.  
Royal Dragoneer   214 
 The magic flagged, but I willed it forward. Esgeril supported my 
weight now to keep me from collapsing. While there was still life in 
my body, I would move it into Farean’s.  
Her breathing became shallow. So shallow, in fact, that I couldn’t 
even see her chest move. Her heart was so faint that I couldn’t feel 
the beating either.  
"It’s over." A voice said.  
I shook my head. What was over?  
Tulowa’s hands shook me and pulled me from Farean.  
"She’s dead ," he said. "You did all you could. But the wound was 
too great."  
"No!" I screamed. I tried to break free from his grip, but he held 
me tight. I pounded my fists against his chest. "She’s not dead. I can 
still heal her."  
"No, you can’t." His voice grew gru ff. "Stop being hysterical and 
face the facts." He dug his fingers into my shoulder. Wincing, I 
dropped to the ground.  
A knife appeared before me, gripped by Esgeril’s thin, delicate 
hand and pointed at his abdomen. "You take your hands off her right 
now, or I will gut you in front of everybody."  
He removed his grip, and backed away from the knife, nearly 
tripping over a tuft of grass in the haste of his escape.  
Esgeril swung the knife from side to side. "Nobody comes near 
her, you hear me? You let her be. She’s as much a Dragoneer as 
anyone here. She’s earned the right to grieve as she needs." Nobody 
approached, but they didn’t leave either.  
I scampered back to Farean’s side, and tried to call forth the magic 
again, but it wouldn’t come. "No. You can’t be d ead!" I beat against 
her side with my fists. I closed my eyes and begged all the gods for 
her to come back. She just lay there. "Vernis," I whispered. "I don’t 
know who you are, but I know you’ve been helping us. Help us 
now." I didn’t know how Vernis spok e to Farean, but he wasn’t 
saying anything to me.  
215  Ash Rober ts 
 I pressed my hands against the wound again. "Come on, you 
stupid magic. Don’t fail me when I really need you." I felt a slight 
tingling in my palms and opened my eyes to see them glowing. Barely 
noticeable,  but there. I urged the golden healing light into her body. 
The crowd murmured behind me, but nobody dared approach 
Esgeril’s knife.  
I gave Farean what feeble magic I could. Salty tears ran down my 
face and onto my blood -soaked hands. The color glowing thr ough 
me changed hue. It was still golden, but richer, more alive somehow. 
"Come on, Farean. Wake up. I need you. I didn’t want you at first, 
but now I can’t live without you."  
The glowing surged. The light burned my eyes. I tried to look 
away, but it was e verywhere. Every nerve in my body screamed and 
pain overtook me. An invisible forced pushed me from her. My head 
hit the dirt, the pain and light continuing to wash over me until that 
was all that existed.  
A dragon roared.  
I recognized the sound.  
Farean ro ared, her voice strong and powerful.  
Joy filled my heart, threatening to burst it.  
Then everything went dark.  

 
 
 
I opened my eyes to find myself in yet another healer’s 
whitewashed stone room. By the light, it ap peared to be late morning. 
Bandages covered my hands, and I felt like a dragon had sat on me. I 
pushed up to sit but found more pain instead. A moan escaped my 
lips. 
Fabric rustled behind me and Esgeril’s face filled my field of 
vision. "You’re awake," she  said. "I’ll go tell the doctor." She scurried 
to the flap at the far end but stopped. She returned and put her hand 
over mine. Or at least over the bandages.  
She planted a kiss on my lips and bounded away. "You’re awake," 
she repeated, her voice noticeabl y higher, before disappearing 
outside. " Okay,  that was weird. " 
"Farean? " I reached out with my mind.  
No response came.  
A wave of incredible grief hit me. After everything I’d done, I’d 
failed. She was gone, and I’d forever be alone. " I’m sorry, Farean.  "I 
exhaled,"  "feeling my throat fill with tears.  
"Hey, I was sleeping ". Her rumbling voice filled my head with more 
than just a touch of irritation.  
"But you were dead". 
"Yes. And you saved me. "She said, as if explaining something to a 
small child. " That’s  what we do. We save each other. "This time her words 
came with warmth. I sent her an image of me hugging her tightly, 
nuzzling against her snout. She returned with an image of me kissing 
Esgeril instead.  
I blushed, even though nobody else could know what sh e’d 
thought to me. " I thought  you were asleep. " 
Royal Dragoneer   218 
 "Aye, she should be. Let yer beast rest." Tulowa said as he entered 
the room, followed by Esgeril, Authand, and General. He turned to 
his entourage, "Since I can’t keep you all out of here while I see my 
patient, you will stand back and not interfere. I assume I have your 
permission to go near her?" He glowered at Esgeril.  
She nodded sheepishly while the other two looked on the 
exchange with bemused expressions.  
"I’m supposed  to let you rest now"," I told Fare an. "But I’ll see you when 
they let me out of here. "Warmth and happiness filled my heart at the 
thought.  
Tulowa came to my side and unwrapped the gauze that covered 
my hands, then examined them. He applied a cream after that, and I 
flinched as the ointmen t stung the sensitive flesh.  
"That’s a good sign. They should heal nicely." He nodded to 
himself and applied new bandages. He listened to my heart and lungs 
and all the other pointless tests that healers subject their patients to. 
"You’re on bed rest for a  sevenday and may have a miserable couple 
days, but you’ll fully recover."  
I thanked him, and he said goodbye, giving Esgeril one final glare 
before leaving.  
The others were silent at first. I understood that. What do you say 
to the person who brought some body back from the dead? Authand 
was the first to speak.  
"You’ve gotten yourself in a fair amount of trouble, Princess 
Kalia. You disobeyed direct orders from both myself and General 
Lutania and put yourself in mortal danger. And you didn’t tell 
anybody th at you are a nestorphen."  
"A what?" I interrupted.  
He frowned at me. "A nestorphen. Someone with healing magic. 
It manifests in less than one in a thousand of us and almost never 
outside of Dragoneer families. If we had known, we would have 
approached your  training differently. Not that anyone could have 
taught you the stunt you pulled." He shook his head. "Continuing the 
219  Ash Rober ts 
 list of your infractions, you interrupt your leaders, and you destroyed 
half my camp." He raised his arms with an exasperated sigh.  
"On t he flip side, Lutania said, "you brought help faster than 
anyone else could have and almost singlehandedly defeated an entire 
legion of Goblin soldiers. I’d say that being restricted to quarters for 
a sevenday is sufficient punishment."  
Behind them, Esgeri l giggled.  
Authand turned and stared at her. "Now, I know we make certain 
allowances for Dragoneers in relationships, but if you pull a knife on 
a commanding officer again, it will be the Caves for you. 
Understand?"  
She swallowed and nodded before squeakin g out an affirmative. 
"Yes, sir."  
Authand’s words didn’t make any sense. Who was Esgeril seeing? 
It must have happened while we weren’t speaking, but I hadn’t 
noticed her with anyone. The thought that she was dating someone 
bothered me more than I thought it should. I pushed the question 
aside for now. I had a sea of others to ask.  
"Sir?" I brought everyone’s attention back to me. "Will I still be 
considered for the Dragon Run?"  
Authand deflated a little. "I didn’t want to tell you this. I thought 
you would  fail on your own merits, but that seems unlikely now." He 
bit his lip. I’d never seen him at a loss for words before. "Your father 
forbids you from competing in the Run."  
I wanted to scream. I wasn’t sure who I was more angry —him or 
Father. Probably both.  I’d never be taken seriously as a Dragoneer if 
I continued to get special treatment.  
There was a commotion behind the door, and it swung open. I 
caught a brief glimpse as Dragoneers in brown and my father’s 
guards in green stared each other down. Father’s  frame then blocked 
the view as he entered, my mother gliding in behind him.  
Lutania gave them a quick bow at the waist before exiting into the 
hallway where I could hear him scolding his Dragoneers, "Stand 
Royal Dragoneer   220 
 down, you morons. When I said let no one in, that  did not include 
the king." The door closed behind him.  
Seeing me, Mother’s composure fled, and she ran to my side, 
giving me a gentle hug.  
It was nice to feel her arms around me again, but I pulled away, 
unsure of how I felt about my parents anymore. Why were they here? 
They had abandoned me. What did they want now? To continue 
controlling me while holding me at arm’s length?  
"You sent me away," I said looking my father in the eyes. "But you 
won’t let me live the life you’ve sent me to fully. Instead, you block 
me at every turn, and make me look like a coward to my peers. Is that 
what you want?"  
He returned my glare; his features hardening into a look that 
almost always preceded a lecture. But then he sighed. "You’re right, 
Kalia. I handled this entire situ ation badly. Please forgive me."  
I couldn’t speak. In sixteen summers, I’d never heard him 
apologize to anyone. I glanced at my mother, and she nodded at me, 
tears glistening at the corners of her eyes. "I’m sorry too," she said, 
softly.  
I was still speech less, so I just nodded and looked down at my 
bandaged hands. Was this real? Where they truly going to let me live 
a Dragoneer’s life? Or was this all just for show and politics?  
My father turned to Authand. "Has she qualified for a position in 
the race?" H e asked.  
"She lost marks for her lack of discipline," he said, and my father 
nodded knowingly. "But," Authand went on, "she exhibited some of 
the best defensive and offensive flying I’ve ever seen yesterday. She’s 
the only reason this place is still standi ng. If anyone has earned a 
spot, it’s her." Having said his piece, he stepped back.  
Father turned back at me. "Well, in that case, I don’t think that I 
can, in good conscious, keep you from competing."  
"Thank you, your highness," I said, the formal honorif ic slipping 
out. It just didn’t feel right to call him daddy anymore. I wasn’t a 
221  Ash Rober ts 
 child. And "father" made me feel inferior. But he was royalty, and so 
was I. Didn’t that put us on equal footing?  
"You are welcome," he nodded at me. "I look forward to cheeri ng 
you on from the stands. Now, I am sorry we can’t stay longer, but I 
must get back Kastea. Duty calls. It always calls." He moved toward 
the door.  
Mother wrapped her arms around me once more, and this time I 
accepted her embrace. "I know you have duties now," she said, "But 
you are welcome to join us at the castle any time you are in town."  
I nodded, not trusting myself to speak.  
Once they left, Authand glanced between Esgeril and me. "I’m 
sure you two have a lot to talk about. But remember," he looked 
pointedly at Esgeril, "bed rest for a sevenday. No funny business."  
Esgeril blushed from the ears down to her toes at his statement.  
Then Authand followed my parents out the door, leaving the two 
of us alone for the first time since I had woken.  
"What’s goin g on? What is everyone hinting about?" I asked a still 
blushing Esgeril.  
She sat at the edge of my bed and placed her hand on mine. 
"Remember when you asked about me having a male dragon?"  
I remembered how upset she had gotten at the question, and how 
she’d refused to discuss it. "You said that it happened sometimes."  
"It does. In Dragoneer circles, it’s usually seen as a sign. Not many 
bond with a dragon of the opposite sex, but when it happens…" Her 
voice trailed off and she examined the stonework in the room.  
"Yes?"  
"When it happens," she drew circles on the floor with her foot, "it 
is usually a sign that the rider is gay."  
I stared at Esgeril, thinking about our friendship and all we’d been 
through together. And finally, the kiss she’d given me when I’d first 
woken. The kiss I had thoroughly enjoyed.  
"I’m gay, Kalia," she said, taking my silence for confusion. "I like 
women. But I was afraid to tell you. I know it’s not viewed the same 
in the central district as it is in the provinces."  
Royal Dragoneer   222 
 I opened my mouth to speak, but she held out her hand. "No, I 
need to finish. To finally say it out loud. I couldn’t tell you because I 
wasn’t sure how you’d react and…" This time I let her finish. "I love 
you."  
 
 
 
Shortly after my bedrest was over, I found myself on another 
stone bench. All Dragoneer ceremonies and events seemed to feature 
them. For everything that had changed in my life over the past year, 
here I was sitting on another stupid stone bench.  
At least I wanted to be at this ceremony. The Battle of Tulta had 
proven my worth. I wouldn’t say I single -handedly defeated the 
Goblin invaders there. But Farean would. In fact, she said it pretty 
much every chance she got.  
"Because  it’s true, "she said proudly" . Where  was everyone  else while we 
were saving  their hides?  That’s  right, hiding  in the woods  while we risked  our 
lives". 
I rolled my eyes, hoping everyone was too busy with the ceremony 
to listen in on her boasting. Never let it be said that drago ns weren’t 
the vainest creatures in all the kingdoms.  
Farean started to protest, but I blocked her out. Colonel Authand 
had finished introducing my father.  
"Today we celebrate those who helped defeat the Goblins at 
Tulta," the king began his speech, "and h onor those who lost their 
lives there. Or worse." His eyes darted to where Selkerdrim sat by 
himself. After the ceremony he would be escorted to a special facility 
at Envinyata. His body remained, but his spirit had departed.  
I forced my attention back to Father as he read off the list of 
names. So many killed. So many broken. I made a silent vow to do 
whatever it took to prevent such a tragedy from happening again.  
"Of course,  we will", Farean agreed.  
With each name, the crowd grew more somber. Dragoneers made 
up the majority of those assembled, with dragons gathered in the 
Royal Dragoneer   224 
 grass beyond the amphitheater. The rest of the audience consisted of 
nobles and other dignitaries.  
"Fortunately, as in most battles, while much was lost, much was 
gained," Father continu ed. "Many of the Dragoneer recruits proved 
themselves that day. Even with their dragons grounded, they 
demonstrated the merit of a ranged weapon. The wall held as long as 
it did thanks to the efforts of the Red riders.  
The red dragons trumpeted in the fiel d as their riders cheered. I 
risked a glance at Esgeril. Surrounded by those in her corps, she 
seemed genuinely happy. And I sincerely hoped she was, despite my 
rejection of her romantic interest in me. It wasn’t that I didn’t like 
her. It was just that I’ d truly taken her evaluation of me to heart. 
Maybe once, I had been a girl who put on independence until 
someone came along to take care of me. But now, I wanted to be a 
woman who took care of herself and her dragon. Maybe someday I’d 
have a relationship t hat was equal parts give and take, but first I had 
to learn how to just be me.  
"When the Greens took to the skies," my father was still talking, 
"their agile maneuvering kept them out of harm’s way while 
distracting the Goblins from the final counter attac k." The Green’s 
cheers at this praise were more muted. They had taken the brunt of 
the casualties on the day. I guess the most agile group of dragons 
wasn’t fast enough.  
It put my teeth on edge to see Lewon sit there with his peers. 
Somehow he’d managed on ce again avoid any responsibility for the 
devastation he’d caused. Somebody in the camp was covering for 
him. I would make it my life’s mission to find out who and bring 
Lewon’s deeds to light.  
"Once the siege weapons were destroyed, the heavy Orange 
drago ns made quick work of the remaining forces." True to form, 
those dragons and their riders provided the most noise, stomping and 
beating against each other causing a ruckus so loud I thought the 
entire building would come down.  
225  Ash Rober ts 
 "Finally, the Blue dragons ou t-raced the retreat, while the others 
rushed healers and supplies to the wounded." Farean and I hadn’t 
been part of either effort, recovering as we were from her injuries in 
the battle, but you would have never known any of that from how 
she took part in t he Blues’ cheer.  
"Aside from the efforts of the whole, there are certain individuals 
that need to be especially recognized." I sat up straighter, and Farean 
stopped in the continuing Blue cheer.  
"She may have been slow to accept her role and we were defini tely 
slow to accept her into your ranks, perhaps me most of all. But at the 
Battle of Tulta, Princess Kalia and Farean proved beyond argument 
that they have the skills, the wits, and the grit to be called 
Dragoneers. If not for them, vital help would have taken much 
longer to arrive, and only they were able to stay aflight in the face of 
the Goblin siege and discover a way to destroy their advantage. If not 
for their brave actions, Tulta would have ended much differently."  
More cheering.  
"Not as much as there should  be". Farean whined.  
"Enjoy  the praise  and admiration  of those who recognize  our worth.  Don’t  
worry about the others.  Most of them have been poisoned  by Lewon’s  lies. They 
will understand  eventually. " 
"They should  understand  now. We saved them." 
"I know," I said, apparently aloud, because Esgeril turned and 
stared at me.  
"You should  just mate her and be done with it. "Farean said, catching my 
response to that stare. " That’s  the dragon  way". 
"I’m not a dragon. And it’s not that simple."  
She let out  a little huff. " That’s  not what your heart says. You desire her". 
"Maybe,  but I can’t be distracted  by that right now. "I turned my 
attention back to the speech, but Father wasn’t talking. Instead, he 
was glaring at me with an outstretched hand. All eyes were on me.  
I looked around, unsure of what had happened while Farean and I 
were arguing.  
Esgeril caught my eye and gave a nod towards the podium.  
Royal Dragoneer   226 
 I stood and scurried to the front as everyone watched.  
I found myself next to Father, unsure what to do.  
"I was slow to accept my daughter as a Dragoneer," he addressed 
the crowd. "As I’m sure you all were. A thousand years of tradition 
broken by a young girl. But she has demonstrated skills and abilities 
that prove she is more suited for a life guarding our skie s with you 
than a life in the castle walls. And for her actions that day, it is my 
great honor to, by the recommendation of General Lutania and 
unanimous vote of the Council of Elders, issue the Golden Leaf to 
Princess Kalia of Kastea."  
I gasped. Murmurs w ent through the crowd. The Golden Leaf was 
the highest honor in all Darneta. Nobody had even received it since 
Father had been king. He smiled at me, gesturing me forward. I took 
a small step and gulped. He reached into his pocket a pulled out a 
pin. The g olden leaf glittered in the morning sun as he worked the 
point through the leather of my harness. After fastening the clasp, he 
stepped back, clapped his hands together, and applause erupted from 
the stands.  
I had finally made my father proud and been acce pted by my 
peers.  
But that isn’t what made me truly happy on that day.  
It was the glow of unconditional love and oneness radiating into 
me through my connection with Farean.  
The thing that made me happy was a dragon . 
 
 


 
 
Sign up to my newsletter for a free book  
 
To say that Authand yearned for adventure would be a lie. 
Life on his father's farm was hard - always too much to d o and 
never quite enough to eat  - but it was his and that suited him 
just fine.  
But sometimes life doesn't give us what we want. While 
hunting, Authand finds something unthinkable, a lone dragon 
egg. Imprinting on a dragon hatchling means his life will be 
anything but  ordinary. Especially when his father, the gentlest 
man he'd ever known, reacts violently.  
Armed with nothing more than his wits - and a dragon - 
Authand must find his way to the famed Dragoneers for a place 
to call home in a world that has little love for  a Black man or a 
feral dragon   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Sign up now  
 
http://bit.ly/feraldragon  

 
 
 
  
